

Description

This October 2011 alert describes a vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Open Automation Software’s OPC Systems.Net.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Open Automation Software’s OPC Systems.NetOpen Automation Software, http://www.opcsystems.net/, website last accessed October 10, 2011.  to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks. product. OPC Systems.Net is a supervisory control and data acquisition/human machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product. According to this report, the vulnerability is exploitable through a malformed .NET Remote Procedural Call (RPC) packet. This report was released without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT.
ICS-CERT has not yet verified the vulnerability or PoC code, but has reached out to the affected vendor to notify, confirm, and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
The report includes vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Exploitability
Impact


Malformed Packet
Remote
Denial ofservice



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.
Background
OPC Systems.NET is a SCADA/HMI application used to monitor and control OLE for Process Control (OPC) systems devices.
Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory, ICSA-12-012-01 Open Automation Software OPC Systems.NET Vulnerability, to the ICS-CERT Web site on January 12, 2012.
Mitigation
ICS-CERT is coordinating with the vendor, Open Automation Software, to identify and disseminate mitigation strategies.
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, website last accessed October 10, 2011.
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP) also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT website. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.


Mitigations


