

Description

This alert warns of a heap-based buffer overflow vulnerability with proof of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Mitsubishi Electric Automation MX, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a heap-based buffer overflow vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Mitsubishi Electric Automation MX, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product. According to this report, the vulnerability is exploitable when an attacker provides specially crafted input. This report was released without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT.
ICS-CERT has notified the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerability and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Buffer Overflow
Yes
Possible Remote Code Execution


 
 
 



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.
According to the Mitsubishi Automation Web site, MX is used to link Mitsubishi PLCs with PCs running Microsoft Windows via serial, Ethernet, or other connections.
For details, please see OSVDB: http://www.osvdb.org/show/osvdb/91661.
Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory ICSA-13-140-01 Mitsubishi MX Component V3 ActiveX Vulnerability to the ICS-CERT Web site on May 20, 2013.


Mitigations

Mitigation
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with the vendor and security researcher to identify mitigations.ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.a
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT Web site. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.bOrganizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.


a. ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, Web site last accessed April 01, 2013.
b. Control System Security Program (CSSP) Recommended Practices, http://www.us-cert.gov/control_systems/practices/Recommended_Practices.html, Web site last accessed April 01, 2013.

