

Description

ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a cross-site scripting vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting the Advantech WebAccess, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product.
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a cross-site scripting vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting the Advantech WebAccess, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product. According to the report, this cross-site scripting vulnerability could allow a remote authenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code in a user’s browser session.
ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
This report was released by Antu Sanadi of SecPod Technologies without successful coordination of the vendor.
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Cross-Site Scripting
Yes
Execute unauthorized code; bypass protection mechanisms; read application data



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.
Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory ICSA-13-225-01 Advantech WebAccess Cross-Site Scripting to the ICS-CERT Web site on August 13, 2013.


Mitigations

Mitigation
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.a
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT Web site. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.


a. http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01

