

Description

This alert describes a Structured Exception Handler (SEH) overwrite vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Sielco Sistemi WinLog Lite SCADA HMI, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of Structured Exception Handler (SEH) overwrite vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Sielco Sistemi WinLog Lite SCADA HMI, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product. According to this report, the vulnerability is exploitable by overwriting the SEH to allow insertion and execution of shell-code. This report was released by independent security researcher “FaryadR” (a.k.a. Ciph3r) on the Web site packetstormsecurity.org without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT.
ICS-CERT has notified the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerability and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Structured Exception  Handler
No
Possible Code Execution



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.
Affected Products
Sielco Sistemi--WinLog Lite SCADA HMI, ver. 2.06.17
Sielco Sistemi is based in Italy with numerous sales and support offices worldwide providing multiple SCADA/HMI solutions.
Mitigation
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with the vendor to identify mitigations.
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, Web site last accessed October 3, 2012.
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT Web site. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
