

Description

This alert update is a follow-up to the original NCCIC/ICS-CERT alert titled ICS-ALERT-14-155-01 Daktronics Vanguard Hardcoded Credentials that was published June 4, 2014, on the ICS-CERT web page. This update clarifies that the Daktronics Vanguard highway notification sign configuration software does not contain a hardcoded password vulnerability that could allow unauthorized access to the highway sign.

table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
SUMMARY
This alert update is a follow-up to the original NCCIC/ICS-CERT Alert titled ICS-ALERT-14-155-01 Daktronics Vanguard Hardcoded Credentials that was published June 4, 2014, on the ICS-CERT web page.
--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 2 --------
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a hardcoded password vulnerability affecting Daktronics Vanguard highway dynamic message sign (DMS) configuration software. According to this report, the vulnerability is a hardcoded password that could allow unauthorized access to the highway sign. This report was reported to ICS-CERT by the Federal Highway Administration. ICS-CERT has notified the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerability and identify mitigations. Daktronics reports that the password is not hardcoded as reported, but is a default password that can be changed upon installation. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
Proof of Concept is known to be publicly available. ICS-CERT recommends entities review sign messaging, update access credentials, and harden communication paths to the signs.



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Default credentials
Yes
Modification of sign text



--------- End Update A Part 1 of 2----------
Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS‑CERT.

MITIGATION

--------- Begin Update A Part 2 of 2 --------
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with the Daktronics and the Federal Highway Administration to identify mitigations.
Daktronics and the Federal Highway Administration recommend the following:

Displays should not be on publicly accessible IP addresses. Placing a display on a private network or VPN helps mitigate the lack of security,
Disable the telnet, webpage, and web LCD interfaces when not needed, and
Change the default password to a strong password as soon as possible on all installed devices.

--------- End Update A Part 2 of 2----------
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, web site last accessed June 05, 2014.
Locate system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov). Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
