

Description

NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a buffer overflow vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Ecava IntegraXor, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product. 
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
SUMMARY
NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a buffer overflow vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Ecava IntegraXor, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product. According to this report, the vulnerability is exploitable by using a command to load an arbitrary resource from an arbitrary DLL located in the program’s main folder. This report was released by Luigi Auriemma at the S4 2014 conference in Miami, Florida, without coordination with either the vendor or NCCIC/ICS-CERT. NCCIC/ICS-CERT has notified the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerability and identify mitigations. NCCIC/ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Buffer Overflow
Yes
Denial of Service




The following Ecava IntegraXor version has been reported to be affected, with earlier versions likely being affected:

IntegraXor Version 4.1.4380

Ecava Sdn Bhd is a Malaysia-based software development company that provides the IntegraXor SCADA product. Ecava specializes in factory and process automation solutions.

IntegraXor is a suite of tools used to create and run a Web-based human-machine interface for a SCADA system. IntegraXor is currently used in several areas of process control in 38 countries with the largest installation based in the United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Poland, Canada, and Estonia.
FOLLOW-UP
ICS-CERT published a follow-up Advisory, ICSA-14-016-01 Ecava IntegraXor Buffer Overflow Vulnerability, to the ICS-CERT Web site on January 16, 2014.

Mitigations

MITIGATION
NCCIC/ICS-CERT is currently attempting to coordinate with the vendor and security researcher to identify mitigations.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.a
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC/ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the ICS-CERT Web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov). Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC/ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.

a. NCCIC/ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, Web site last accessed January 15, 2014. 

