

Description

NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of vulnerabilities affecting the Moxa ioLogik E2210 Ethernet Micro RTU controller. The Moxa ioLogik E2210 Ethernet Micro RTU controller is a PC-based data acquisition and control device. According to this report, the device’s password is transmitted with HTTP and is also stored in the cookie. The transmitted password is weakly encrypted with MD5 making it vulnerable to cracking. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
SUMMARY
NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of vulnerabilities affecting the Moxa ioLogik E2210 Ethernet Micro RTU controller. The Moxa ioLogik E2210 Ethernet Micro RTU controller is a PC-based data acquisition and control device. According to this report, the device’s password is transmitted with HTTP and is also stored in the cookie. The transmitted password is weakly encrypted with MD5 making it vulnerable to cracking. These vulnerabilities were discovered by Aditya K. Sood and presented by him at DefCon 2015 in Las Vegas, Nevada, on August 8, 2015. He reported these vulnerabilities to ICS-CERT a few days before his presentation, and the vendor was notified of the issue but has not had time to address it. ICS‑CERT has notified the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerabilities and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
The disclosure included vulnerability details for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Password transmitted unsecurely with weak encryption
Yes
Unauthorized access and replay attacks


Client-side encrypted password
No
Unauthorized access to the device


Weakly hashed password contained in the HTTP cookie
Yes
Unauthorized access to the device



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS‑CERT.
FOLLOW-UP
ICS-CERT released the follow-up advisory titled  ICSA-16-063-01 Moxa ioLogik E2200 Series Weak Authentication PracticesICSA-16-063-01 Moxa ioLogik E2200 Series Weak Authentication Practices, https://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/advisories/ICSA-16-063-01, web site last accessed March 3, 2016.  on March 3, 2016, on the ICS-CERT web site.
MITIGATION
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with the vendor and security researcher to identify mitigations. ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, web site last accessed August, 12, 2015. 
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.
Effectively segment networks and implement demilitarized zones with properly configured firewalls to selectively control and monitor traffic passed between zones.
Monitor all traffic to the affected product.
Limit access to the affected device to authorized personnel.
Implement a bump-in-the-wire solution that can provide secure communication between endpoints, which may enhance security.
Maintain layered physical and logical security, defense-in-depth design practices for control system networks.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov). Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
