

Description

NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of an SQL Injection vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Navis WebAccess application. This report was released by “bRpsd” without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT. ICS-CERT has reached out to the affected vendor to validate the report. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide notice of the report and to identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to this and other cybersecurity attacks.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
SUMMARY
NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of an SQL Injection vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Navis WebAccess application. This report was released by “bRpsd” without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT. ICS-CERT has reached out to the affected vendor to validate the report. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide notice of the report and to identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to this and other cybersecurity attacks.
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


SQL Injection
Yes
Application does not properly sanitize input that may allow a remote attacker to read and modify data in the SQL database.



The affected product, WebAccess, is a web-based application that provides the operator and its constituents with real-time, online access to operational logistics information. The WebAccess application is deployed across the Transportation sector. It is estimated that these products are used worldwide.
FOLLOW-UP
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory ICSA-16-231-01 Navis WebAccess SQL Injection VulnerabilityICSA-16-231-01 Navis WebAccess SQL Injection Vulnerability, https://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/advisories/ICSA-16-231-01, web site last accessed August 18, 2016. to the ICS-CERT Web site on August 18, 2016.
MITIGATION
ICS-CERT is currently reaching out to the vendor to identify mitigations.
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize the potential damage of a successful SQL injection attack by minimizing the privileges assigned to every database account to only what is necessary.
Minimize network exposure for all systems supporting control systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, web site last accessed August 17, 2016.
Locate systems and devices supporting control system networks behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

In addition, additional details about mitigating SQL injections can be found in the following publications:
https://www.us-cert.gov/security-publications/sql-injection
https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SQL_Injection.
ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov). Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.


Mitigations

 

