

Description

This September 2011 alert describes four vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting the ARC Informatique PcVue HMI/SCADA Version 10.0 product. 
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of four vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting the ARC Informatique PcVue HMI/SCADA Version 10.0 product. According to the report, these vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable by using an ActiveX component within a targeted machine. This report was released without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT.
ICS-CERT has not yet verified the vulnerabilities or PoC code but has reached out to the affected vendor to notify, confirm, and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing these and other cybersecurity risks.
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerabilities:



Exploitability
Impact
Type


Control of a function pointer
Remote
Denial of Service / Possible Remote Code Execution


Arbitrary Memory Write
Remote
Potential to Write Memory


Directory Traversal
Remote
Possible File Corruption


Array Overflow
Remote
Denial of Service/Potential Remote Code Execution



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.
Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory, ICSA-11-340-01 - ARC Informatique PcVue ActiveX Vulnerabilities, on December 06, 2011.


Mitigations

Mitigation
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with the vendor to identify useful mitigations.
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.a
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
The Control System Security Program also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT website. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.


a. CS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, website last accessed September 28, 2011.

