

Description

ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of four vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (POC) exploit code affecting atvise webMI, a web-based SCADA/HMI product. According to this report, these vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable though the webserver Port 80/TCP.
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of four vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (POC) exploit code affecting the Certec atvise webMI, a web-based SCADA/HMI product. According to this report, these vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable though the webserver Port 80/TCP. This report was released without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT. 
ICS-CERT has not yet verified the vulnerabilities or POC code, but has reached out to the affected vendor to notify, confirm, and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks. 
The report includes vulnerability details and POC exploit code for the following vulnerability: 



Vulnerability Type
Exploitability
Impact


Directory Traversal
Remote
Data Leakage


NULL Pointer
Remote
Denial of Service


Termination of the software
Remote
Denial of Service


Resource Consumption
Remote
Denial of Service



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT. 


Mitigations

Background
Certec atvise webMI is web-based SCADA management software used in many industries including building automation, traffic control, and manufacturing.
 
Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory, ICSA-12-102-01 Certec atvise webMI Vulnerabilities, on April 10, 2012.
Mitigation
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with the vendor and security researcher to identify useful mitigations. 
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.a
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network. 
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices. 

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures. 
The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP)also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT website. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents. 


a. ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, website last accessed October 10, 2011.

