

Description

This September 2011 alert describes three vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (POC) exploit code affecting Measuresoft ScadaPro.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of multiple vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (POC) exploit code affecting Measuresoft ScadaPro. According to the report, the vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable through Port 11234/UDP. This report was released without coordination with the vendor or with ICS-CERT.
ICS-CERT has not yet verified the vulnerabilities or POC code, but has reached out to the affected vendor to notify, confirm, and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
Initial analysis of the report indicates vulnerability details and proof-of-concept exploit code for the following vulnerabilities:



Vulnerability Type
Exploitability
Impact


Stack Overflow
Remote
Denial of Service / Possible Remote Code Execution


Insecure Method Call
Remote
Information Leak / Disclosure


Path Traversal
Remote
Information Leak / Disclosure



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.
Background
ScadaPro is a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system used in power generation, oil and gas, pharmaceuticals, and manufacturing. Measuresoft Development Ltd. is headquartered in Louth, Ireland with an office in Missouri City, Texas.
Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory, ICSA-11-263-01 - Measuresoft ScadaPro Vulnerabilities, on September 13, 2011.


Mitigations

Mitigation
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.a
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs).

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
The Control System Security Program also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT website. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.


a. http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01

