

Description

This November 2011 alert describes a public report of denial-of-service vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Optima APIFTP Server, part of a suite of supervisory control and data acquisition/ human-machine interface products.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of denial-of-service vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Optima APIFTP Server, part of a suite of supervisory control and data acquisition/ human-machine interface products. According to this report, these vulnerabilities are exploitable by sending specially crafted packets to the server on Port 10260/UDP. This report was released Luigi Auriemma without coordination with ICS-CERT, the vendor, or other coordinating entity that ICS-CERT is aware of.
ICS-CERT has coordinated the report with Optima, which is working to confirm the report and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
The report includes details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerabilities:



Vulnerability Type
Exploitability
Impact


Null pointer
Remote
Denial of Service / Possible Remote Code Execution


Endless loop
Remote
Denial of Service / Possible Remote Code Execution



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.

Mitigations

Mitigation
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with Optima to identify useful mitigations.
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Configure firewall rules appropriately for traffic on Port 10260/UDP.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.1
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs),recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP) also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT website. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.

1. ICS-CERT Alert, http://www.us-cert.gov/control_systems/pdf/ICS-Alert-10-301-01.pdf, website last accessed November 28, 2011.

