

Description

NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of authentication vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting FENIKS PRO Elnet LT Energy & Power analyzer. According to this report, attackers can manage the device remotely without authentication. This report was released after ICS-CERT failed to coordinate the vulnerabilities with FENIKS PRO. ICS-CERT has notified the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerabilities and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
SUMMARY
NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of authentication vulnerabilities with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting FENIKS PRO Elnet LT Energy & Power analyzer. According to this report, attackers can manage the device remotely without authentication. This report was released after ICS-CERT failed to coordinate the vulnerabilities with FENIKS PRO. ICS-CERT has notified the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerabilities and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Unauthenticated Web Management access
Yes
Possible Remote Code Execution



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS‑CERT.
ICS-CERT recommends that users of these devices (or any other control system device) change passwords from the default settings upon installation of the product.
Elnet LT is a power meter for electrical measurements and harmonics with RS485 communication.
MITIGATION
ICS-CERT is attempting to coordinate with the vendor and security researcher to identify mitigations.
ICS-CERT recommends, as quality assurance, that users test the update in a test development environment that reflects their production environment prior to installation. In addition, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a control systems recommended practices page on the ICS-CERT web site. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
