

Description

This alert warns of a vulnerability with proof-of-concept exploit code affecting the Clorius Controls ICS SCADA product.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of information disclosure vulnerability affecting the Clorius Controls ICS SCADA product. According to this report, the device hosts a web service that reveals fingerprint information. This report was released without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT. ICS-CERT has attempted to notify the affected vendor of the report and will ask the vendor to confirm the vulnerability and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Information Disclosure
Yes
Loss of Confidentiality



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.

Mitigations

Mitigation
ICS-CERT is currently attempting to contact the vendor and the security researcher to identify mitigations.ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.1
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT Web site. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.2Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.

1. ICS-CERT ALERT, http://www.us-cert.gov/control_systems/pdf/ICS-Alert-10-301-01.pdf, Web site last accessed April 1, 2013.
2. Control System Security Program (CSSP) Recommended Practices, http://www.us-cert.gov/control_systems/practices/Recommended_Practices.html, Web site last accessed April 1, 2013.

