

Description

This May 2010 alert describes  an unallocated Unicode string vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code that affects the Invensys Wonderware SuiteLink (SL) service (slssvc), which is part of the System Platform software suite.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report identifying an unallocated Unicode string vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code that affects the Invensys Wonderware SuiteLink (SL) service (slssvc), which is part of the System Platform software suite. SuiteLink is a communications protocol used by Invensys Wonderware supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) products. According to this report, the vulnerability allows an attacker to remotely crash older versions of the slssvc service by sending a long and unallocated Unicode string. This report was released by Luigi Auriemma without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT.
Invensys has confirmed that the vulnerability exists for certain versions of Wonderware InTouch and Wonderware Application Server (WAS) prior to the latest 2012 release. Invensys has identified mitigations for other products and prior versions.
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Exploitable
Impact


Unallocated Unicode String
Can be remotely exploited
Denial of Service



This ICS-CERT alert provides early notice of the report and identifies baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity risks. ICS-CERT is currently working with the security researcher and Invensys regarding mitigations to resolve this issue.
SuiteLink is a common component used for communication between Wonderware products. It is also used for communication between Wonderware products and some third-party products developed with Wonderware’s Extensibility Tool Kits. The Invensys Wonderware SuiteLink Service connects Wonderware software with third-party products and OPC-compliant devices and applications. Generally, when a Wonderware product is installed, SuiteLink is likely also installed as a common component.
The Invensys Wonderware SuiteLink component is deployed in many industries worldwide, including manufacturing, energy, food and beverage, chemical, and water and wastewater.
Invensys is working to release a standalone update tool that will provide an upgrade path for all products using the SuiteLink component. Customers that require an immediate mediation can upgrade to the following product versions or install the following products to update SuiteLink and resolve this vulnerability on any affected node:

InTouch/Wonderware Application Server (IT 10.5, WAS 3.5) or later,
DASABCIP 4.1SP2 (the first product to ship secured version of SuiteLink),
DASSiDirect 3.0, and
DASRTC 3.0SP2 or DASRTC 3.0SP3 upgrade for any DAServer or DIObject or third-party toolkit server.

Customers can access these updates at the following Web site: https://wdn.wonderware.com/sites/WDN/Pages/Downloads/Software.aspx
Customers should follow the recommendations detailed in the Securing Industrial Control Systems guide available to all customers from the Wonderware Security Central Web site.
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Follow the Wonderware guidelines for Securing Industrial Control Systems.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.ICS-CERT ALERT, http://www.us-cert.gov/control_systems/pdf/ICS-Alert-10-301-01.pdf, Web site last accessed May 14, 2012.
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP) also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT Web site. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.

Mitigations

Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory ICSA-12-171-01 Wonderware SuiteLink Unallocated Unicode String to the ICS-CERT Web page on June 18, 2012.
