

Description

This alert provides early notice of uncoordinated buffer overflow vulnerability disclosure of the Cobham Sailor 900 VSAT.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
SUMMARY
NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a remote exploit vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Cobham Sailor 900 VSAT, maritime satellite broadband product. According to this report, an attacker may use this vulnerability to remotely bypass administrative passwords. This report was released without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT. ICS-CERT is reaching out to the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerability and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report.
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Buffer Overflow
Yes
Remote Code Execution



The vendor’s product information indicates that this product is used for broadband maritime communications. This vulnerability does not appear to affect navigation.

Mitigations

MITIGATION
ICS-CERT is currently reaching out to the vendor to identify the validity of this exploit and possible mitigations.
ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov). Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents. 
