

Description

This alert update is a follow-up to the original NCCIC/ICS-CERT Alert titled ICS ALERT 15 225-01 Rockwell Automation 1769-L18ER and Logix5318ER Vulnerability that was published August 13, 2015, on the ICS-CERT web page. NCCIC/ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a cross-site scripting vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Rockwell Automation 1769-L18ER/A LOGIX5318ER devices web interface. This is a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
SUMMARY
This alert update is a follow-up to the original NCCIC/ICS-CERT Alert titled ICS‑ALERT‑15‑225-01 Rockwell Automation 1769-L18ER and Logix5318ER Vulnerability that was published August 13, 2015, on the ICS-CERT web page.
--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 1 --------
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a cross-site scripting vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting Rockwell Automation 1769-L18ER/A LOGIX5318ER devices web interface. This is a programmable logic controller (PLC) used for automation in industrial processes. According to this report, the vulnerability is exploitable through the web interface of the impacted devices. This vulnerability was discovered by Aditya K. Sood and presented by him at DefCon 2015 in Las Vegas, Nevada, on August 8, 2015. This report was released without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT. ICS-CERT has notified the affected vendor of the report and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerability and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
--------- End Update A Part 1 of 1----------
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability



Vulnerability Type
RemotelyExploitable
Impact


Cross-site Scripting
Yes
Possible remote code execution




MITIGATION
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with the vendor and security researcher to identify mitigations.
Rockwell Automation suggests these mitigating measures:

Use trusted software, software patches, antivirus/antimalware programs and interact only with trusted web sites and attachments.
Employ training and awareness programs to educate users on the warning signs of a phishing or social engineering attack.
Subscribe to our Security Advisory Index, Knowledgebase article KB:54102 (https://rockwellautomation.custhelp.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/54102), so you have access to our most up-to-date information about security matters that affect Rockwell Automation products.

ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet. ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, web site last accessed August 13, 2015
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov). Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
