

Description

This alert describes a public report of a directory traversal vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting SpecView, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of a directory traversal vulnerability with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code affecting SpecView, a supervisory control and data acquisition/human-machine interface (SCADA/HMI) product. According to this report, a directory traversal vulnerability could occur when a specially crafted request is passed to the web server running on Port 80\TCP. Successful exploitation could result in data leakage. This report was released by Luigi Auriemma without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT.
ICS-CERT has discussed the report with the affected vendor and has asked the vendor to confirm the vulnerability and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
The report included vulnerability details and PoC exploit code for the following vulnerability:



Vulnerability Type
Remotely Exploitable
Impact


Directory Traversal
Yes
Data Leakage



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.

Mitigations

Mitigation
ICS-CERT is currently coordinating with the vendor to identify mitigations. ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities.
Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.a
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP) also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT Web site. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory ICSA-13-011-02 SpecView Directory Traversal to the ICS-CERT Web page onJanuary 11, 2013.

a. ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, Web site last accessed August 01, 2012.

