

Description

ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of one stack overflow vulnerability with proof of concept (POC) exploit code affecting AzeoTech DAQFactory, a SCADA/HMI Product. According to this report, the vulnerability is exploitable via a service running on Port 20034/UDP.
SUMMARY
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of one stack overflow vulnerability with proof of concept (POC) exploit code affecting AzeoTech DAQFactory, a SCADA/HMI Product. According to this report, the vulnerability is exploitable via a service running on Port 20034/UDP. This report was released without coordination with either the vendor or ICS-CERT. 
ICS-CERT has not yet verified the vulnerabilities or POC code, but has reached out to the affected vendor to notify, confirm, and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks. 
The report included vulnerability details and proof-of-concept exploit code for the following vulnerability: 



Vulnerability Type
Exploitability
Impact


Stack Overflow
Remote
Denial of Service



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT. 
BACKGROUND
DAQFactory is a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) and human-machine interface (HMI) software used in multiple industries including water, power, and manufacturing. DAQFactory installations are primarily located in the United States and Europe. 

Mitigations

MITIGATION
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should: 

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.1
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network. 
If remote access is required, employ secure methods such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). 

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures. 
The Control System Security Program also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT website. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
FOLLOW-UP
ICS-CERT published a follow-up advisory titled ICSA-11-264-01 - AzeoTech DAQFactory Stack Overflow to the ICS-CERT Web page on September 20, 2011. 

1. ICS-CERT ALERT, http://www.us-cert.gov/control_systems/pdf/ICS-Alert-10-301-01.pdf, accessed September 13, 2011

