

Description

This alert describes four vulnerabilities with proof of concept (POC) exploit code affecting Cogent DataHub.
table.gridtable {
	font-family: verdana,arial,sans-serif;
	font-size:11px;
	color:#333333;
	border-width: 1px;
	border-color: #666666;
	border-collapse: collapse;
}
table.gridtable th {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #dedede;
}
table.gridtable td {
	border-width: 1px;
	padding: 8px;
	border-style: solid;
	border-color: #666666;
	background-color: #ffffff;
}
Summary
ICS-CERT is aware of a public report of four vulnerabilities with proof of concept (POC) exploit code affecting Cogent DataHub. According to the reports, the vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable through ports that are listed in the table below. This report was released without coordination with the vendor or with ICS-CERT.
ICS-CERT has not yet verified the vulnerabilities or POC code, but has reached out to the affected vendor to notify, confirm, and identify mitigations. ICS-CERT is issuing this alert to provide early notice of the report and identify baseline mitigations for reducing risks to these and other cybersecurity attacks.
The report included vulnerability details and proof-of-concept exploit code for the following vulnerabilities:



Info Header 1
Info Header 2
Info Header 3


Stack Overflow
Remote – Ports 4052 and 4053
Denial of Service / Possible Remote Code Execution


Integer Overflow
Remote – Port 80
Denial of Service


Directory Traversal
Remote – Port 80
Information Leak / Disclosure


Information Exposure
Remote – Port 80
Information Leak / Disclosure



Please report any issues affecting control systems in critical infrastructure environments to ICS-CERT.
Background
Cogent DataHub is SCADA management software used in many industries including manufacturing, energy, financial, and pharmaceuticals.
Follow-Up
ICS-CERT released a follow-up advisory, ICSA-11-280-01 - Cogent DataHub Vulnerabilities, on October 06, 2011.


Mitigations

Mitigation
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.a
Locate control system networks and devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
If remote access is required, employ secure methods such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs).

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
The Control System Security Program also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT website. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.


a. ICS-CERT ALERT, http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/alerts/ICS-ALERT-10-301-01, accessed September 13, 2011.

