
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 5.9
ATTENTION: Exploitable from adjacent network.
Vendor: PTC
Equipment: Kepware ThingWorx Kepware Server
Vulnerability: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could crash the target device.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
PTC reports that the following products and versions are affected:

PTC Kepware ThingWorx Kepware Server: V6
PTC Kepware KEPServerEX: V6
Software Toolbox TOP Server: V6
GE IGS: V7.6x

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling CWE-770
When performing an online tag generation to devices which communicate using the ControlLogix protocol, a machine-in-the-middle, or a device that is not configured correctly, could deliver a response leading to unrestricted or unregulated resource allocation. This could cause a denial-of-service condition and crash the Kepware application. By default, these functions are turned off, yet they remain accessible for users who recognize and require their advantages.
CVE-2024-6098 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:A/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-6098. A base score of 5.9 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:A/AC:H/AT:P/PR:N/UI:P/VC:N/VI:N/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Sharon Brizinov and Vera Mens of Claroty Research - Team82 reported this vulnerability to PTC.
4. MITIGATIONS
PTC recommends users take a defense-in-depth stance with regards to their manufacturing networks ensuring proper access control is maintained. Additionally, proper adherence to the Kepware Secure Deployment Guide will minimize this threat through accurate configuration and use of the product.
Please refer to this article (login required) for specific information on how this risk may be mitigated in your environment.
If additional questions remain, contact PTC Technical Support.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

August 15, 2024: Initial Publication

