
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Simcenter STAR-CCM+
Vulnerability: Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor

2. RISK EVALUATION
 Simcenter STAR-CCM+ contains an information disclosure vulnerability when using the Power-on-Demand public license server. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could give an attacker access to a system’s host, user, and display name.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
 The following versions of Simcenter STAR-CCM+ are affected:

Simcenter STAR-CCM+: All versions

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
 3.2.1    EXPOSURE OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION TO AN UNAUTHORIZED ACTOR CWE 200
Affected applications expose user, host, and display names when the public license server is used; this could allow an attacker to retrieve this information.
CVE-2022-34659 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Multiple
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
 Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations that customers can apply to reduce risk:

Set the environmental variable STARLICENSEHIDE to 1. This will send the string “unknown” for the user, host, and display name instead of the real values. The setting is supported since version V8.04 (June 2013) of Simcenter STAR-M+.
Avoid using sensitive or personal data in user, host, and display names.

Siemens recommends users configure the environment according to Siemen’s operational guidelines for Industrial Security General Security Recommendations.
Siemens recommends users follow the General Security Recommendations.
As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security, and following the recommendations in the product manuals.  
Siemens has additional information on Industrial Security on its webpage.
For more information see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-555707.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
