
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.4
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SINEMA Spectrum Power 4
Vulnerability: Cross-site scripting

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could compromise the confidentiality and integrity of the affected product.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Siemens Spectrum Power 4 communications and data modeling software are affected:

Siemens Spectrum Power 4: All versions prior to v4.70 SP9 Security Patch 1

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING CWE-79
The integrated web application “Online Help” in affected product contains a cross-site scripting vulnerability that could be exploited if unsuspecting users are tricked into accessing a malicious link.
CVE-2022-23312 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Jacinto Moral Matellán and Aarón Flecha Menéndez from S21Sec reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released an update for the Spectrum Power 4 and recommends updating to the latest version:

Update to v4.70 SP9 Security Patch 1 or a later version. Please contact a Siemens representative.
Do not open unknown links while working on Spectrum Power 4.

Operators of critical power systems (e.g. TSOs or DSOs) worldwide are usually required by regulations to build resilience into the power grids by applying multi-level redundant secondary protection schemes. Therefore, Siemens recommends operators check whether appropriate resilient protection measures are in place. The risk of cyber incidents impacting the grid’s reliability can thus be minimized by virtue of the grid design.
Siemens strongly recommends applying the provided security updates using the corresponding tooling and documented procedures made available with the product. If supported by the product, an automated means to apply the security updates across multiple product instances may be used. Siemens strongly recommends prior validation of any security update before being applied, and supervision by trained staff of the update process in the target environment.
As a general security measure Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access with appropriate mechanisms (e.g., firewalls, segmentation, VPN). Users are encouraged to configure the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security and security guidelines for digital grid products in order to run the devices in a protected IT environment.
For more information see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-831168
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
