
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


CVSS v3 6.7

ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit
Vendor: MatrikonOPC
Equipment: MatrikonOPC Explorer
Vulnerability: Files or Directories Accessible to External Parties

2. RISK EVALUATION
If the attacker has local access to the system, an attacker could exploit this vulnerability. This could allow an attacker to transfer unauthorized files from the host system, which could result in unauthorized information disclosure.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
According to MatrikonOPC, the following product is affected:

MatrikonOPC Explorer, Versions 5.0 and prior.

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 FILES OR DIRECTORIES ACCESSIBLE TO EXTERNAL PARTIES CWE-552
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to transfer unauthorized files from the host system. The attacker must have local access to be able to exploit this vulnerability.
CVE-2018-8714 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:N/A:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Chemical and Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Ilya Kapov of Positive Technologies reported this vulnerability to MatrikonOPC.
4. MITIGATIONS
MatrikonOPC has made fixes available to resolve this vulnerability through a patch:

MatrikonOPC Explorer Versions 5.0 and prior: Update to V5.1.0.0

MatrikonOPC recommends that the affected users follow the instructions below to download and install the patch:

Navigate to the MatrikonOPC website: https://www.matrikonopc.com/downloads/176/software/index.aspx
Login with your credentials
Download the patch via this link
Run the patch installer, which will make all necessary changes.

MatrikonOPC has published a security notification, which can be located here:
https://www.opcsupport.com/s/article/SECURITY-NOTIFICATION-OPC-Explorer-SN-2017-04-27-01
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS-CERT website in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
