
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 8.4
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Verve Asset Manager
Vulnerability: Placement of User into Incorrect Group

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an unauthorized user to access previous data they should no longer have access to.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Rockwell Automation reports that the following versions of Verve Asset Manager are affected:

Verve Asset Manager: Versions prior to 1.38

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Placement of User into Incorrect Group CWE-842
An improper authorization vulnerability exists in the affected products that could allow an unauthorized user to sign in. While removal of all role mappings is unlikely, it could occur in the case of unexpected or accidental removal by the administrator. If exploited, an unauthorized user could access data they previously had but should no longer have access to.
CVE-2024-9412 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 6.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-9412. A base score of 8.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:H/UI:A/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N ).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Chemical, Critical Manufacturing, Water and Wastewater Systems, Healthcare and Public Health, and Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation has addressed this issue in version 1.38 and encourages users to update to the newest available version.
Rockwell Automation encourages users of the affected software to apply risk mitigations, if possible. Additionally, they encourage users to implement suggested security best practices to minimize the risk of vulnerability:

The presence of any mappings will help prevent this vulnerability from being exploited. If all mappings must be removed, manually removing previously mapped users is an effective workaround.
Security Best Practices

For more information about this issue, please see the advisory on the Rockwell Automation security page.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

October 10, 2024: Initial Publication

