
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.7
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely
Vendor: Hitachi ABB Power Grids
Equipment: Retail Operations and Counterparty Settlement Billing (CSB)
Vulnerability: Insufficiently Protected Credentials

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to access database credentials, shut down the product, and access or alter system data.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Hitachi ABB Power Grids reports this vulnerability affects the following utility usage and billing software products:

Retail Operations: All Versions 5.7.2 and prior
Counterparty Settlement and Billing (CSB): All Versions 5.7.2 and prior

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    INSUFFICIENTLY PROTECTED CREDENTIALS CWE-522
An attacker who has gained access to an authorized user’s computer could exploit this vulnerability to access database credentials and gain read/edit access to application data.
CVE-2021-35529 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:H/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing, Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Switzerland

3.4 RESEARCHER
4. MITIGATIONS
Hitachi ABB Power Grids recommends updating to Version 5.7.3 or later, which resolves this vulnerability. For more information on this advisory, see the Hitachi ABB Power Grids security advisory or contact Hitachi ABB Power Grids.
Hitachi ABB Power Grids suggests  recommended security practices, operating systems hardening, and firewall configurations can help protect a user’s computer from the attacks. An entry point for this vulnerability is the unsecured operating system on which the product is installed. Hitachi ABB Power Grids recommends hardening the operating system accordingly.

Follow the hardening guidelines published by The Center for Internet Security (CIS).
Routinely monitor the application process log for unrecognized user sessions originating from outside the application.

For additional information, please see the following Hitachi ABB Power Grids security advisories:

Retail Operations
Counterparty Settlement Billing (CSB)

CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
