
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Solid Edge
Vulnerabilities: Out-of-bounds Write

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could lead to an application crash or arbitrary code execution on the target host system.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Siemens Solid Edge, a portfolio of software tools, are affected:

Solid Edge SE2020 – All versions before 2020MP14
Solid Edge SE2021 – All versions before SE2021MP5

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The ugeom2d.dll library lacks proper validation of user-supplied data when parsing DFT files. This could result in an out-of-bounds write past the end of an allocated structure. An attacker could leverage this vulnerability to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2021-31342 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2    OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The jutil.dll library lacks proper validation of user-supplied data when parsing DFT files. This could result in an out-of-bounds write past the end of an allocation structure. An attacker could leverage this vulnerability to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2021-31343 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Garmin, working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, reported these vulnerabilities to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released updates and recommends users apply them when possible:

Solid Edge SE2020 – All versions before 2020MP14: Update to 2020MP14 or later (login required)
Solid Edge SE2021 – All versions before SE2021MP5: Update to SE2021MP5 or later (login required)

Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce the risk:

Avoid opening untrusted filed from unknown sources in Solid Edge.

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends users configure the environment according to Siemens operational guidelines for industrial security, and follow the recommendations in the product manual.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information about this issue, please see Siemens security advisory SSA-208356
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
