
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity 
Vendor: Siemens 
Equipment: Teamcenter Visualization and JT2Go 
Vulnerability: Stack-based Buffer Overflow 

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could lead the application to crash or potentially lead to arbitrary code execution. 
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Teamcenter Visualization and JT2Go are affected: Siemens reports this vulnerability  

JT2Go: all versions prior to V14.2.0.2 
Teamcenter Visualization V13.2: all versions prior to V13.2.0.13 
Teamcenter Visualization V13.3: all versions prior to V13.3.0.9 
Teamcenter Visualization V14.0: all versions prior to V14.0.0.5 
Teamcenter Visualization V14.1: all versions prior to V14.1.0.7 
Teamcenter Visualization V14.2: all versions prior to V14.2.0.2 

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121 
The APDFL.dll contains a memory corruption vulnerability while parsing specially crafted PDF files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process. 
CVE-2023-1709 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H). 
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors 
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide 
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany 

3.4 RESEARCHER
Michael Heinzl reported this vulnerability to Siemens. 
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released updates for the affected products and recommends updating to the latest versions: 

JT2Go: Update to V14.2.0.2 or later version 
Teamcenter Visualization V13.2: Update to V13.2.0.13 or later version 
Teamcenter Visualization V13.3: Update to V13.3.0.9 or later version 
Teamcenter Visualization V14.0: Update to V14.0.0.5 or later version 
Teamcenter Visualization V14.1: Update to V14.1.0.7 or later version 
Teamcenter Visualization V14.2: Update to V14.2.0.2 or later version 

Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations that users can apply to reduce risks: 

Avoid opening untrusted files in JT2Go and Teamcenter Visualization 

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security, and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals. Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at the Siemens Industrial Security web page. 
For further inquiries on security vulnerabilities in Siemens products and solutions, users should contact the Siemens ProductCERT. 
For more information, see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-629917 in HTML and CSAF. 
CISA recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks: 

Do not click on web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages. 
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams. 
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks. 

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. This vulnerability has low attack complexity. 
