
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.5
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SIPORT MP
Vulnerability: Insufficient logging

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow the attacker to create special accounts with administrative privileges.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS

SIPORT MP: All versions prior to 3.1.4 are affected

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    INSUFFICIENT LOGGING CWE-778
Vulnerable versions of the device allow the creation of special accounts (service users) with administrative privileges that could enable a remote authenticated attacker to perform actions that are not visible to other users of the system, such as granting persons access to a secured area. 
CVE-2019-19277 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Government Facilities
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends users to update to Version 3.1.4 (login required).
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce the risk:

For SIPORT MP Versions 3.0.x, apply the latest hotfix for Version 3.0.3
For SIPORT MP Versions 2.2 and later, apply the SIPORT_CleanUsers tool. 

As a general security measure Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to affected products with appropriate mechanisms. It is advised to follow recommended security practices in order to run the devices in a protected IT environment.
Additional information on Industrial Security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information see the Siemens security advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
