
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 10.0
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: PTC
Equipment: Creo Elements/Direct License Server
Vulnerability: Missing Authorization

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow unauthenticated remote attackers to execute arbitrary OS commands.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
PTC reports that the following versions of Creo Elements/Direct License Server are affected; note that this vulnerability does not impact "PTC Creo License Server" (lmadmin, lmgrd):

Creo Elements/Direct Drafting: versions 15.00 through 20.7
Creo Elements/Direct Model Manager / Drawing Manager: versions 15.00 through 20.7
Creo Elements/Direct Modeling: versions 15.00 through 20.7
Creo Elements/Direct WorkManager / DDM: versions 15.00 through 20.4
Creo Elements/Direct License Server (MEls): version 20.7.0.0 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Missing Authorization CWE-862
Creo Elements Direct License Server exposes a web interface which can be used by unauthenticated remote attackers to execute arbitrary OS commands on the server.
CVE-2024-6071 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 10.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-6071. A base score of 10.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:N/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:H/SI:H/SA:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Information Technology
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Thomas Riedmaier of Siemens Energy reported this vulnerability to PTC.
4. MITIGATIONS
PTC recommends that users upgrade to Creo Elements/Direct License Server 20.7.0.1 or higher version:

Creo Elements/Direct Drafting
Creo Elements/Direct Model/Drawing Mgr
Creo Elements/Direct Modeling
Creo Elements/Direct WorkManager

If additional questions remain, please contact PTC Technical Support.
For more information, see PTC's CS article
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

June 25, 2024: Initial Publication
July 9, 2024: Update A - Expanded Product List

