
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Millbeck Communications
Equipment: Proroute H685t-w
Vulnerabilities: Command Injection, Cross-site Scripting

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary commands on the device's operating system.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Millbeck Communications Proroute H685t-w, a 4G router, are affected:

Proroute H685t-w: Version 3.2.334

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in a Command ('Command Injection') CWE-77
There is a command injection vulnerability that may allow an attacker to inject malicious input on the device's operating system.
CVE-2024-45682 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 8.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2 Improper Neutralization of Input During Web Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting') CWE-79
This vulnerability occurs when user-supplied input is improperly sanitized and then reflected back to the user's browser, allowing an attacker to execute arbitrary JavaScript in the context of the victim's browser session.
CVE-2024-38380 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 5.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United Kingdom

3.4 RESEARCHER
Joe Lovett from Pen Test Partners reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Millbeck Communications recommends that users download the firmware patch v3.2.335 or higher.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

September 17, 2024: Initial Publication

