
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 7.3
ATTENTION: Low Attack Complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Simcenter Femap
Vulnerabilities: Heap-based Buffer Overflow, Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buffer

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports that the following products are affected:

Simcenter Femap V2306: All versions
Simcenter Femap V2401: All versions
Simcenter Femap V2406: All versions

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 HEAP-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-122
The affected application is vulnerable to heap-based buffer overflow while parsing specially crafted BDF files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2024-41981 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-41981. A base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:L/AC:H/AT:N/PR:N/UI:P/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.2.2 IMPROPER RESTRICTION OF OPERATIONS WITHIN THE BOUNDS OF A MEMORY BUFFER CWE-119
The affected application is vulnerable to memory corruption while parsing specially crafted BDF files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2024-47046 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-47046. A base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:L/AC:H/AT:N/PR:N/UI:P/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Michael Heinzl reported these vulnerabilities to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released a new version for Simcenter Femap V2406 and recommends updating to the latest version. Siemens is preparing further fix versions and recommends countermeasures for products where fixes are not, or are not yet, available:

Simcenter Femap V2306, Simcenter Femap V2401: Currently no fix is available.
Simcenter Femap V2406: Integrate the update published under ''Femap 2406 Nastran Updates" (https://support.sw.siemens.com/downloads/PL20240416271650117/) applicable to all Femap 2406.x versions.

Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Do not open untrusted BDF files in the affected applications.

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-881356 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

December 12, 2024: Initial Publication

