
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


CVSS v3 7.5

ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SIMOCODE pro V EIP
Vulnerability: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could cause a denial-of-service condition.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of SIMOCODE pro V EIP, a motor management system for low-voltage motors, are affected:

SIMOCODE pro V EIP all versions prior to v1.0.2

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    UNCONTROLLED RESOURCE CONSUMPTION CWE-400
Specially crafted packets sent to Port 161/UDP could cause a denial-of-service condition. The affected devices must be restarted manually.
CVE-2017-12741 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Chemical, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens ProductCERT reported this vulnerability to NCCIC.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends users upgrade to Version 1.0.2. Users who cannot upgrade because of hardware restrictions are recommended to apply the manual mitigations. Updates are available for download from the following link:
https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/ww/en/view/109756912
Siemens also recommends users apply the following manual mitigations:

Protect network access to Port 161/UDP of affected devices.
Apply cell protection concept and implement defense-in-depth.
Use VPN for protecting network communication between cells. 

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for Industrial Security (Download) and following the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security for Siemens devices can be found at: 
https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information on this vulnerability and more detailed mitigation instructions, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-141614 at the following location:
http://www.siemens.com/cert/advisories
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS-CERT website in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. 
