
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.0
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: FactoryTalk Service Platform
Vulnerability: Incorrect Execution-Assigned Permissions

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow malicious users with basic user group privileges to receive administrator group privileges.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Rockwell Automation reports that the following versions of FactoryTalk Service Platform are affected:

FactoryTalk Service Platform: versions prior to v2.74

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Incorrect Execution-Assigned Permissions CWE-279
A privilege escalation vulnerability exists in FactoryTalk® Service Platform (FTSP). If exploited, a malicious user with basic user group privileges could potentially sign into the software and receive FTSP Administrator Group privileges. A threat actor could potentially read and modify sensitive data, delete data and render the FTSP system unavailable.
CVE-2024-21915 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 9.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation encourages users with the affected software to apply the risk mitigations, if possible. Additionally, they encourage customers to implement Rockwell Automation suggested security best practices to minimize the risk of vulnerability.
For more information about this issue, please see the advisory on the Rockwell Automation security page.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

February 15, 2024: Initial Publication

