
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.5
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: EVlink Home Smart and Schneider Charge
Vulnerability: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may expose test credentials in the firmware binary.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports that the following EVlink Home Smart and Schneider Charge charging stations are affected:

EVlink Home Smart: All versions prior to 2.0.6.0.0
Schneider Charge: All versions prior to 1.13.4

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 CLEARTEXT STORAGE OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION CWE-312
A cleartext storage of sensitive information vulnerability exists that exposes test credentials in the firmware binary.
CVE-2024-8070 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:L/A:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Transportation Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Europe, Asia Pacific, Middle East, and Africa
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Simon Petitjean reported this vulnerability to Schneider Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

EVlink Home Smart: For already connected products, Version 2.0.6.0.0 of EVlink Home Smart includes a fix for this vulnerability and has been deployed to automatically upgrade all charging stations connected to the Wiser application.

Make sure the charging station is connected to the Wiser application to ensure the new version is downloaded and installed.
For new installations, a fix for this vulnerability is enforced through eSetup commissioning application.
The installed firmware version can be verified through Wiser application (refer to the settings page for the charging station).


Schneider Charge: For already connected products, Version 1.13.4 of Schneider Charge includes a fix for this vulnerability and has been deployed to automatically upgrade all charging stations connected to the Wiser application.

Make sure the charging station is connected to the Wiser application to ensure the new version is downloaded and installed.
For new installations, a fix for this vulnerability is enforced through eSetup commissioning application.
The installed firmware version can be verified through either Wiser application (refer to the settings page for the charging station), or the third-party supervision application.



Schneider Electric strongly recommends the following cybersecurity best practices:

Device should only be used in a personal home network.
Device should not have a publicly accessible IP address.
Do NOT use port forwarding to access a device from the public Internet.
A device should be on its own network segment. If your router supports a guest network or VLAN, it is preferable to locate the device there.
Use the strongest Wi-Fi encryption available in the home Wi-Fi network, such as WPA3 or WPA2/3 with protected management frames.
Schedule regular reboots of your routing device, smartphones, and computers.
Ensure that unauthorized individuals cannot gain physical access to your devices or regularly inspect the device for visual clues that may reveal a tampering attempt.

For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document. and the associated Schneider Electric Security Notification SEVD-2024-282-04 in PDF and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

January 23, 2025: Initial Publication

