
OVERVIEW
This updated advisory is a follow-up to the updated advisory titled ICSA-16-082-01 Siemens APOGEE Insight Incorrect File Permissions Vulnerability that was published March 22, 2016, on the NCCIC/ICS-CERT web site.
--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 3 --------
Siemens has identified an incorrect file permissions vulnerability in APOGEE Insight. China Electronic Technology Cyber Security Co., Ltd. and Hunan Testing Institute of Product and Commodity Supervision reported this issue directly to Siemens. Siemens has released a new version to mitigate this vulnerability.
--------- End Update A Part 1 of 3 ----------
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
--------- Begin Update A Part 2 of 3 --------
Siemens reports that the vulnerability affects the following product:

APOGEE Insight: All versions prior to 3.15

--------- End Update A Part 2 of 3 ----------
IMPACT
This vulnerability could allow authenticated users of the operating system to modify application data for the affected product.
Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization. ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of this vulnerability based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation.
BACKGROUND
Siemens is a multinational company headquartered in Munich, Germany.
The affected product, APOGEE Insight software, provides a graphical interface to manage and control buildings. According to Siemens, APOGEE Insight software is deployed across several sectors including Commercial Facilities. Siemens estimates that this product is used worldwide.
VULNERABILITY CHARACTERIZATION
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

INCORRECT DEFAULT PERMISSIONSCWE-276: Incorrect Default Permissions, http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/276.html, web site last accessed March 22, 2016.

The file permissions set for the APOGEE Insight application folder could allow authenticated operating system users to modify the APOGEE Insight application data if local access was obtained.
CVE-2016-3155NVD, http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2016-3155, web site last accessed March 22, 2016. has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 3.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).CVSS Calculator, https://www.first.org/cvss/calculator/3.0#CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N, web site last accessed March 22, 2016.
VULNERABILITY DETAILS
EXPLOITABILITY
This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely, and an attacker would need to be an authenticated user of the operating system.
EXISTENCE OF EXPLOIT
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
DIFFICULTY
An attacker with a low skill would be able to exploit this vulnerability.
MITIGATION
--------- Begin Update A Part 3 of 3 --------
Siemens has released a new APOGEE Insight version to resolve the vulnerability. Version 3.15 can be obtained by calling the local service organization. If users need assistance in identifying the local service organization, please call a local Siemens hotline center:
https://w3.siemens.com/aspa_app/
Until the new version can be applied, Siemens has detailed instructions on how to mitigate the vulnerability by correcting file permissions. To receive these instructions, users should contact their local service organization or a local Siemens hotline center.
--------- End Update A Part 3 of 3 ----------
For more information on this vulnerability and more detailed mitigation instructions, see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-151221 at the following location:
http://www.siemens.com/cert/en/cert-security-advisories.htm
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Limit access of authenticated users to only the machines that are needed.
Compartmentalize your network.
Restrict which programs a user can run.
Lock unattended machines.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
