
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.5
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Moxa
Equipment: MXview
Vulnerabilities: Information Exposure

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a remote attacker to access and read cryptographic private keys.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of MXview, network management software, are affected:

MXview versions 2.8 and prior.

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 INFORMATION EXPOSURE CWE-200
The private key of the web server is able to be read and accessed via an HTTP GET request, which may allow a remote attacker to decrypt encrypted information.
CVE-2018-7506 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Transportation Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Taiwan

3.4 RESEARCHER
Michael DePlante of Leahy Center for Digital Investigation at Champlain College reported this vulnerability to NCCIC.
4. MITIGATIONS
Moxa has developed a new version of MXview to mitigate the vulnerability. MXview versions 2.9 can be downloaded from the Moxa Support Website.
NCCIC recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT website.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
