
Overview
This Advisory is a follow-up to the original ICS-CERT Alert titled ICS-ALERT-12-136-01 Wonderware SuiteLink Unallocated Unicode String that was published May 15, 2012 on the ICS-CERT web page.Independent researcher Luigi Auriemma identified a maliciously crafted Unicode string vulnerability causing a stack-based buffer overflow with proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit code that affects the Invensys Wonderware SuiteLink service (slssvc.exe). This vulnerability was released without coordinating with ICS-CERT or the vendor. This vulnerability can be exploited remotely, and public exploits are known to target this vulnerability. Wonderware SuiteLink is part of the System Platform software suite.ICS-CERT has coordinated this vulnerability with Invensys. Invensys has confirmed the vulnerability exists for Wonderware products built prior to 2011. Invensys has produced a patch that resolves this vulnerability. This patch validation was confirmed by Luigi Auriemma.
Affected Products
All Wonderware products built prior to 2011 are affected:

slssvc service less than or equal to Version 54.x.x.x is vulnerable, and
slssvc service equal to or greater than Version 58.x.x.x is not vulnerable.

Slssvc service Versions 55–57 were never publicly released. InTouch 2012 and Wonderware Application Server 2012 are not vulnerable to crash but will show excessive resource consumption if exploited.
Impact
The vulnerability allows an attacker to cause a buffer overflow that can ultimately lead to a denial-of-service (DoS) and crash of the system in some versions.The vulnerability allows an attacker to remotely stall or crash the slssvc service by sending a long and unallocated Unicode string to the buffer. This exploit could affect critical infrastructure and key resources where Wonderware SuiteLink is deployed.Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization. ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of this vulnerability based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation.
Background
SuiteLink is a common component used for communication between Wonderware products. It is also used for communication between Wonderware products and some third-party products developed with Wonderware’s Extensibility Tool Kits. The Invensys Wonderware SuiteLink Service connects Wonderware software with third-party products and OPC-compliant devices and applications. Generally, when a Wonderware product is installed, SuiteLink is likely also installed as a common component. The SuiteLink service is a common component of the System Platform used to transport value, time, and quality of digital I/O information and extensive diagnostics with high throughput between industrial devices, third party, and Wonderware products.The InvensysInvensys, http://www.invensys.com/, Web site last accessed June 19, 2012. Wonderware SuiteLink component is deployed in many industries worldwide, including manufacturing, energy, food and beverage, chemical, and water and wastewater.
Vulnerability Characterization
Vulnerability Overview
Stack-Based Buffer OverflowCWE-121: Stack Based Buffer Overflow, http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/121.html, Web site last accessed June 19, 2012.
Attackers can send an oversized unallocated string into the SuiteLink buffer that causes the allocated stack buffer to be overwritten. This attack causes a crash of slssvc.exe and a DoS.CVE-2012-3007NVD, http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2012-3007, NIST uses this advisory to create the CVE Web site report. This Web site will be active sometime after publication of this advisory. has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS V2 base score of 7.1 has also been assigned (AV:N/AC:M/Au:N/C:N/I:N/A:C).
Vulnerability Details
Exploitability
This vulnerability is remotely exploitable.
Existence of Exploit
Public exploits are known to target this vulnerability.
Difficulty
An attacker with a low skill level would be able to exploit this vulnerability.
Mitigation
Invensys recommends the following mitigations.

Apply security update patch to affected nodes.
Upgrade to InTouch/Wonderware Application Server (IT 10.5, WAS 3.5) or later.
Upgrade to DASABCIP 4.1 SP2 or DASSiDirect 3.0.
Install DAServer Runtime Components Upgrade 3.0 SP2, 3.0 SP3 or higher for any DAServer, DI Object, or third-party DAServer installation.

The Invensys security update patch can be found at the Wonderware download Web site.ICS-CERT encourages asset owners to take additional defensive measures to protect against this and other cybersecurity risks. Customers can refer to Invensys Security Central for further security information.

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Critical devices should not directly face the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP) also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the CSSP web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies. ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
