
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.5
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: FactoryTalk View Site Edition
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could cause the product to become unavailable and require a restart to recover resulting in a denial-of-service condition.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Rockwell Automation reports that the following versions of FactoryTalk View Site Edition are affected:

FactoryTalk View Site Edition: V11.0

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
FactoryTalk View Site Edition V11.0 insufficiently validates user input, which could potentially allow threat actors to send malicious data bringing the product offline. If exploited, the product would become unavailable and require a restart to recover resulting in a denial-of-service condition.
CVE-2023-46289 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation has provided patches for these versions v11.0 & v12.0 & v13.0.
Rockwell Automation encourages users of the affected software to apply the risk mitigations if possible. Additionally, they encourage users to implement their suggested security best practices to minimize the risk
For more information, see Rockwell Automation's security advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
 
5. UPDATE HISTORY

October 26, 2023: Initial Publication

