
Overview
An independent security researcher has published information to a vulnerability disclosure website regarding a buffer overflow vulnerability in the Wonderware InBatch and I/A Series Batch software products (all supported versions).
According to the researcher’s report, the service listening on TCP Port 9001 is vulnerable to a buffer overflow that could cause denial of service (DOS) or the possible execution of arbitrary code. This vulnerability is remotely exploitable and exploit code is publicly available.
--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 2 ----------
Invensys has validated the researcher’s claim and has released a patch for this vulnerability. The patchcan be downloaded at Invensys Cyber Security Updates page.a ICS-CERT has validated the patch.
---------- End Update A Part 1 of 2 ----------
ICS-CERT is coordinating this vulnerability disclosure with Invensys and the CERT Coordination Center (CERT/CC).
Affected Products
This vulnerability affects all supported versions of the Wonderware InBatch Server and I/A Batch Server in the InBatch and I/A Batch products. The following table from Invensys identifies the currently supported products that are affected:



Product and Component
Supported Operating System
Security Impact
Severity Rating


Wonderware InBatch 8.1 - InBatch Server (all versions)
Windows XP Professional Windows 2000 Server Windows Server 2
Denial of Service
Medium


Wonderware InBatch 9.0 - InBatch Server (all versions)
Windows XP Professional Windows Server 2003
Denial of Service
Medium


I/A Series Batch 8.1 - I/A Series Batch Server (all versions)
Windows Server 2003 Server R2 Windows XP Professional SP2
Denial of Service
Medium



Users running earlier versions should contact their support provider for guidance.
Impact
While a successful exploit of the buffer overflow could allow a DOS or arbitrary code execution, the specific impact to an individual organization depends on many factors that are unique to the organization. ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of this vulnerability based on their environment, architecture, and product implementation.
Background
According to Invensys, Wonderware InBatch and I/A Series Batch products are used to develop batch management capabilities for control system applications that run on the Microsoft Windows platforms.
Wonderware InBatch and I/A Series Batch software is used in a wide variety of batching processes including pharmaceutical production; food and beverage production, including breweries and milk production; and various Chemical Sector batching processes. InBatch software is estimated to be deployed in Europe (60%), North America (30%), and other areas around the world (10%). I/A Series Batch software is estimated to be deployed in North America (60%), and Europe (40%).
Vulnerability Characterization
Vulnerability Overview
According to the researcher’s report, the InBatch service listening on TCP Port 9001 is vulnerable to a buffer overflow that could allow a DOS or possibly lead to arbitrary code execution. This vulnerability is remotely exploitable and exploit code has been released.
Vulnerability Details
Exploitability
This vulnerability is remotely exploitable.
Existence of Exploit
Exploit code specifically targeting this vulnerability has been released.
Difficulty
It is estimated that an attacker would require an intermediate skill level to exploit this vulnerability. An exploit would require development of a malicious application with access to TCP Port 9001 on the batch server and an understanding of the protocol used on that port. The malicious application would need to send a partially valid message that overflows the internal buffer.
Invensys has internally assessed the vulnerability using the Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) and has determined this vulnerability rates an Overall CVSS score of 5.5, using the CVSS Version 2.0 calculator.NIST, http://nvd.nist.gov/cvss.cfm, web site last visited December 14, 2010.
Mitigation
ICS-CERT and Invensys recommend that users of Wonderware InBatch and I/A Series Batch take the following mitigation steps:
--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 2 ----------

Install the patch located at http://iom.invensys.com/EN/Pages/IOM_CyberSecurityUpdates.aspx

---------- End Update A Part 1 of 2 ----------

Install the patch when it is released. ICS-CERT will provide an update to this Advisory when a patch is released.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Control system devices should not directly face the Internet.ICS-CERT ALERT, http://www.us-cert.gov/control_systems/pdf/ICS-Alert-10-301-01.pdf, web site last visited December 3, 2010.
Control system networks and devices should be located behind firewalls and isolated from the business network. Access to TCP Port 9001 should be restricted. If remote access is required, secure methods such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) should be utilized.

Invensys provides information and useful links related to their security updates at their Cyber Security Updates site.Organizations should follow their established internal procedures if any suspected malicious activity is observed and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents. ICS-CERT reminds organizations that proper impact analysis and risk assessment should be performed prior to taking defensive measures.
The Control System Security Program also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) web site. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
