
CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Trihedral Engineering Limited
Equipment: VTScada
Vulnerabilities: Improper Access Control, Uncontrolled Search Path Element
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Trihedral Engineering Limited reports that the vulnerability affects the following versions of the VTScada HMI and SCADA software:

VTScada 11.3.03 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities may allow execution of arbitrary code.
MITIGATION
Trihedral Engineering Limited recommends that users of an affected version update to the latest version, 11.3.05. The update can be found at the following location:
ftp://ftp.trihedral.com/VTS/VTScada 11.3 Versions/
Help file notes for upgrading VTScada/VTS can be found at:
https://www.trihedral.com/help/Content/Op_Welcome/Wel_UpgradeNotes.htm
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not remotely exploitable.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER ACCESS CONTROL CWE-284

A local, non-administrator user has privileges to read and write to the file system of the target machine.
CVE-2017-14031 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

UNCONTROLLED SEARCH PATH ELEMENT CWE-427

The program will execute specially crafted malicious dll files placed on the target machine.
CVE-2017-14029 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen and Mark Cross independently discovered these vulnerabilities and reported them to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Chemical, Communications, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: North America, Europe
Company Headquarters Location: Canada
