
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Mendix SAML
Vulnerability: Improper Neutralization of Input During Web Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to gain sensitive information by tricking users into accessing a malicious link.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following components from Siemens are affected:

Mendix SAML (Mendix 8 compatible): Versions V2.3.0 and after up to V2.3.4
Mendix SAML (Mendix 9 compatible, New Track): Versions V3.3.0 and after up to V3.3.9
Mendix SAML (Mendix 9 compatible, Upgrade Track): Versions V3.3.0 and after up to V3.3.8

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF INPUT DURING WEB PAGE GENERATION ('CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING') CWE-79
The affected module is vulnerable to reflected cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks. This could allow an attacker to extract sensitive information by tricking users into accessing a malicious link.
CVE-2022-46823 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Infrastructure
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Mendix SAML (Mendix 9 compatible, Upgrade Track): Update to V3.3.8 or later version.
Mendix SAML (Mendix 9 compatible, New Track): Update to V3.3.9 or later version.
Mendix SAML (Mendix 8 compatible): Update to V2.3.4 or later version.
Enable multi-factor authentication (MFA), if possible.

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security and following the recommendations in the product manuals.
For more information, see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-496604 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents. 
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks: 

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages. 
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams. 
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks. 

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. 
