
CVSS v3 6.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Progea
Equipment: Movicon SCADA/HMI
Vulnerability: Uncontrolled Search Path Element, Unquoted Search Path or Element
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Movicon HMI, an HMI software platform, are affected:

Movicon Version 11.5.1181 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow privilege escalation or arbitrary code execution.
MITIGATION
Progea has not provided an update to address these vulnerabilities. However, Progea has issued a knowledge base article about DLL Hijacking, which can be found at the following location:
http://www.movicon.info/Support/MoviconKB/WebHelp/Knowledgebase/kb000035.htm
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks which could lead a user to download a malicious DLL file accidentally:
1.Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
2.Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
3.Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW


UNCONTROLLED SEARCH PATH ELEMENT CWE-427

An uncontrolled search path element vulnerability has been identified, which may allow a remote attacker without privileges to execute arbitrary code in the form of a malicious DLL file.
CVE-2017-14017 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

UNQUOTED SEARCH PATH OR ELEMENT CWE-428

An unquoted search path or element vulnerability has been identified, which may allow an authorized local user to insert arbitrary code into the unquoted service path and escalate his or her privileges.
CVE-2017-14019 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:H/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen reported these vulnerabilities to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Europe, India, and United States
Company Headquarters Location: Italy
