
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low Attack Complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Tecnomatix Plant Simulation
Vulnerabilities: Out-of-bounds Write, Out-of-bounds Read

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to perform code execution after leading a user to open a specially crafted SPP file on a system running an affected product.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following products of Siemens, are affected:

Tecnomatix Plant Simulation V2201: All versions prior to V2201.0009
Tecnomatix Plant Simulation V2302: All versions prior to V2302.0003

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The affected application contains an out-of-bounds write past the end of an allocated buffer while parsing a specially crafted SPP file. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-44081 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2 OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The affected application contains an out-of-bounds write past the end of an allocated buffer while parsing a specially crafted SPP file. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-44082 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.3 OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The affected application contains an out-of-bounds write past the end of an allocated buffer while parsing a specially crafted SPP file. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-44083 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.4 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The affected applications contain an out-of-bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted SPP files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-44084 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.5 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The affected applications contain an out-of-bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted SPP files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-44085 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.6 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The affected applications contain an out-of-bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted SPP files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-44086 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.7 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The affected applications contain an out-of-bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted SPP files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-44087 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Tecnomatix Plant Simulation V2201: Update to V2201.0009 or later version.
Tecnomatix Plant Simulation V2302: Update to V2302.0003 or later version.

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage.
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-524778 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

October 12, 2023: Initial Publication

