
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low Attack Complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: EcoStruxure Power Design
Vulnerability: Deserialization of Untrusted Data

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow for arbitrary code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Schneider Electric - EcoStruxure Power Design - Ecodial, an equipment management platform, are affected:

EcoStruxure Power Design - Ecodial NL: All Versions
EcoStruxure Power Design - Ecodial INT: All Versions
EcoStruxure Power Design - Ecodial FR: All Versions

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 DESERIALIZATION OF UNTRUSTED DATA CWE-502
All versions of Schneider Electric EcoStruxure Power Design - Ecodial NL, INT, and FR deserializes untrusted data which could allow an attacker to perform code execution when a malicious project file is loaded into the application by a valid user.
CVE-2024-2229 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Information Technology, Healthcare and Public Health, Critical Manufacturing, Transportation Systems, Energy, Chemical
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Sina Kheirkhah (@SinSinology) of Summoning Team (@SummoningTeam) working with Trend Micro Zero Day Initiative reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric is establishing a remediation plan for all future versions of EcoStruxture Power Design - Ecodial that will include a fix for this vulnerability. Until then, customers should immediately apply the following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit:

Compute hash of the project files and regularly check the consistency of this hash to verify the integrity before usage.
Store the hash information in a separate location from where the project file is stored.
When sharing or receiving project files with another user, the hash information should be provided over a separate, out of band channel.
When exchanging files over the network, use secure communication protocols.
Only open project files received from a trusted source.
Harden the workstation running the application.
Delete the accounts of people who no longer need access to the application and the computer running the application following the principle of least privilege.

To ensure you are informed of all updates, including details on affected products and remediation plans, subscribe to Schneider Electric's security notification service.
Schneider Electric strongly recommends the following industry cybersecurity best practices.

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access your industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks.
Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in the "Program" mode.
Never connect programming software to any network other than the network intended for that device.
Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc., before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Never allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also, understand that VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices.

For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document.
CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

March 12, 2024: Initial Publication

