
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Teamcenter Visualization and JT2Go
Vulnerability: Heap-based buffer Overflow

2. UPDATE
This updated advisory is a follow-up to the original advisory titled ICSA-22-195-07 Siemens Datalogics file Parsing Vulnerability that was published July 14, 2022, on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics
3. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could crash a system or potentially lead to arbitrary code execution if a user opens a malicious PDF file.
4. TECHNICAL DETAILS
4.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Siemens products are affected:

Teamcenter Visualization V13.3: All versions prior to 13.3.0.5

--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 3 ---------

Teamcenter Visualization V14.0: All versions prior to 14.0.0.2

--------- End Update A Part 1 of 3 ---------

JT2go: All versions prior to 13.3.0.5

4.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
4.2.1    HEAP-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-122
The APDFL.dll contains an out-of-bounds write past the fixed-length heap-based buffer while parsing specially crafted PDF files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2022-2069 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
4.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

4.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
5. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends updating to the latest version:

Teamcenter Visualization V13.3: Update to version 13.3.0.5 or later

--------- Begin Update A Part 2 of 3 ---------

Teamcenter Visualization V14.0: Currently no fix available.

--------- End Update A Part 2 of 3 ---------

JT2Go V13.3.0.5: Update to version 13.3.0.5 or later

--------- Begin Update A Part 3 of 3 ---------

Avoid opening untrusted files in JT2Go and Teamcenter Visualization

--------- End Update A Part 3 of 3 ---------
As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on Siemens’ Industrial Security webpage.
For more information see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-829738
CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
