
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 5.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Pavilion8
Vulnerability: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to view sensitive data due to a lack of encryption.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions Rockwell Automation Pavilion8, a model predictive control software, are affected:

Pavilion8: Versions v5.20 and later

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 MISSING ENCRYPTION OF SENSITIVE DATA CWE-311
A vulnerability exists in the affected product due to lack of encryption of sensitive information. The vulnerability results in data being sent between the Console and the Dashboard without encryption, which can be seen in the logs of proxy servers, potentially impacting the data's confidentiality.
CVE-2024-40620 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:L/I:L/A:L).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-40620. A base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:L/UI:N/VC:L/VI:L/VA:L/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation has released product updates addressing this vulnerability:

Pavilion8: update to v6.0 or later

Users of the affected software, who are not able to upgrade to one of the corrected versions, are encouraged to apply security best practices, where possible.

Interactions between the Console and Dashboard take place on the same machine, the machine should exist behind a firewall and physical access should be limited to authorized personnel.
Security Best Practices

Users can use Stakeholder-Specific Vulnerability Categorization to generate more environment-specific prioritization.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

August 13, 2024: Initial Publication

