
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


CVSS v3 5.5

Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Arena
Vulnerability: Use After Free

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could cause the software application to crash.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Arena, simulation software for manufacturing, are affected:

Arena versions 15.10.00 and prior.

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 USE AFTER FREE CWE-416
A use after free vulnerability caused by processing specially crafted Arena Simulation Software files may cause the software application to crash, potentially losing any unsaved data.
CVE-2018-8843 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Wisconsin, USA

3.4 RESEARCHER
Ariele Caltabiano, working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, reported this vulnerability to NCCIC.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation encourages affected users to upgrade to the latest version of Arena software, v15.10.01 or later, which can be obtained from (login required):
https://rockwellautomation.custhelp.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/1073588
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS-CERT website in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. High skill level is needed to exploit.
