
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 5.4
ATTENTION: Exploitable locally
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Emulate3D
Vulnerability: Externally Controlled Reference to a Resource in Another Sphere

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to perform remote code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following version of Rockwell Automation Emulate3D, a Digital Twin technology, is affected:

Emulate3D: Versions 17.00.00.13276

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Externally Controlled Reference to a Resource in Another Sphere CWE-610
A vulnerability exists in Rockwell Automation Emulate3D, which could be leveraged to execute a DLL hijacking attack. The application loads shared libraries, which are readable and writable by any user. If exploited, a malicious user could leverage a malicious DLL and perform a remote code execution attack.
CVE-2024-6079 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 6.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-6079. A base score of 5.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:L/AC:H/AT:N/PR:L/UI:A/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation encourages users the affected software to apply the risk mitigations, if possible.

Update to the corrected software version, 17.00.00.13348.
For information on how to mitigate security risks on industrial automation control systems, we encourage users to implement Rockwell Automation suggested security best practices to minimize the risk of the vulnerability.

Users can use Stakeholder-Specific Vulnerability Categorization to generate more environment-specific prioritization.
For more information, see Rockwell Automation's security advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

August 22, 2024: Initial Publication

