
CVSS v3 6.5
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: XHQ
Vulnerability: Improper Access Control
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports that the vulnerability affects the following versions of the XHQ operations intelligence product line:

XHQ 4: All versions prior to V4.7.1.3
XHQ 5: All versions prior to V5.0.0.2

IMPACT
This vulnerability could allow a low-privileged remote user to gain read access to data in the XHQ solution exceeding his configured permission level.
MITIGATION
Siemens has released new versions of XHQ to address this vulnerability.  Users are to call their local service organization for further information on how to obtain the newest version of XHQ.  If the local service organization is not known, please call a local Siemens hotline center:
https://w3.siemens.com/aspa_app/
Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to XHQ with appropriate mechanisms. Siemens also advises that users configure the operational environment according to Siemens’ Operational Guidelines for Industrial Security:
https://www.siemens.com/cert/operational-guidelines-industrial-security
For more information on this vulnerability and more detailed mitigation instructions, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-945660 at the following location:
http://www.siemens.com/cert/advisories
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Restrict access to systems to only those users who require access that system.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is remotely exploitable. Low skill level is needed to exploit.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER ACCESS CONTROL CWE-284

A vulnerability in XHQ server could allow an authenticated, low-privileged remote user to gain read access to data in the XHQ solution exceeding his configured permission level.
CVE-2017-6866 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Siemens self-reported this vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Germany
