
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low Attack Complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: EcoStruxure Foxboro DCS Core Control Services
Vulnerabilities: Out-of-bounds Write, Improper Validation of Array Index, Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could lead to a loss of system functionality or unauthorized access to system functions.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports that the following products are affected:

EcoStruxure Foxboro DCS Core Control Services: Versions 9.8 and prior

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
An out-of-bounds write vulnerability exists that could cause local denial of service, or kernel memory leak when a malicious actor with local user access crafts a script/program using an IOCTL call in the Foxboro.sys driver.
CVE-2024-5679 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2 IMPROPER VALIDATION OF ARRAY INDEX CWE-129
An improper validation of array index vulnerability exists that could cause local denial of service when a malicious actor with local user access crafts a script/program using an IOCTL call in the Foxboro.sys driver.
CVE-2024-5680 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:H).
3.2.3 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
An improper input validation vulnerability exists that could cause local denial of service, privilege escalation, and potentially kernel execution when a malicious actor with local user access crafts a script/program using an IOCTL call in the Foxboro.sys driver.
CVE-2024-5681 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Government Services and Facilities, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Vladimir Tokarev, Microsoft Defender for IoT reported these vulnerabilities to Schneider Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has made Patch HF97872598 available for v9.5 to v9.8 of EcoStruxure Foxboro DCS Core Control Services that includes a fix for these vulnerabilities.
Users should contact the local service representative or Schneider Electric Process Automation Global Customer Support Center for information on how to download and install this fix. Reboot is needed.
Users should employ appropriate patching methodologies when applying these patches to their systems. Schneider Electric strongly recommends the use of back-ups and evaluating the impact of these patches in a test and development environment or on an offline infrastructure. Contact Schneider Electric's Customer Care Center if you need assistance removing a patch. If users choose not to apply the remediation provided above, they should immediately apply the following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit:
As the identified vulnerabilities require local user account access, EcoStruxure Foxboro DCS workstations should be installed in a secure location to prevent physical access by unauthorized personnel, and appropriate password protections put in place to prevent remote access by unauthorized personnel.
To ensure you are informed of all updates, including details on affected products and remediation plans, subscribe to Schneider Electric's security notification service.
Schneider Electric strongly recommends the following industry cybersecurity best practices:

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access your industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks.
Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in the "Program" mode.
Never connect programming software to any network other than the network intended for that device.
Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc. before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Never allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also, understand that VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices.

For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document.
For more information, see Schneider Electric Security Notification "SEVD-2024-191-02 EcoStruxure Foxboro DCS Core Control Services"
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

December 10, 2024: Initial Publication

