
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Teamcenter Visualization, JT2Go
Vulnerability: Out-of-bounds Read

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following products of Siemens, are affected:

Siemens JT2Go: Versions prior to v14.3.0.8
Siemens Teamcenter Visualization V14.1: Versions prior to v14.1.0.14
Siemens Teamcenter Visualization V14.2: Versions prior to v14.2.0.10
Siemens Teamcenter Visualization V14.3: Versions prior to v14.3.0.8
Siemens Teamcenter Visualization V2312: Versions prior to v2312.0002

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The affected applications contain an out of bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted PDF files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-7066 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
MoyunSec reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends users update the follow products to the latest versions:

Teamcenter Visualization V14.1: Update to V14.1.0.14 or later version
Teamcenter Visualization V14.2: Update to V14.2.0.10 or later version
JT2Go: Update to V14.3.0.8 or later version
Teamcenter Visualization V14.3: Update to V14.3.0.8 or later version
Teamcenter Visualization V2312: Update to V2312.0002 or later version

Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

All affected products: Do not open untrusted PDF files in affected applications.

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-722010 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

July 11, 2024: Initial Publication

