
CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit
Vendor: SpiderControl
Equipment: SCADA Web Server
Vulnerability: Improper Privilege Management
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of SCADA Web Server, a software management platform, are affected:

SCADA Web Server Version 2.02.0007 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow authenticated system users to escalate their privileges under certain conditions.
MITIGATION
SpiderControl has produced a new version of the software (Version 2.02.0100) that can be found at the following link. A login is required to view the download.
http://spidercontrol.net/downloads-support/user-downloads/
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability.
ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not remotely exploitable.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER PRIVILEGE MANAGEMENT CWE-269

Authenticated, non-administrative local users are able to alter service executables with escalated privileges which could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code under the context of the current system services.
CVE-2017-12728 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen reported this vulnerability to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Critical Manufacturing
Countries/Areas Deployed: Europe
Company Headquarters Location: Switzerland
