
CVSS v3 7.1
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: OSIsoft
Equipment: PI Coresight
Vulnerability: Cross-Site Request Forgery
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
OSIsoft reports that the vulnerability affects the following PI Coresight products:

PI Coresight 2016 R2 and earlier versions.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow access to the PI System resulting in unauthorized viewing or alteration of PI System data.
MITIGATION
OSIsoft recommends that users upgrade to PI Vision 2017 or greater to mitigate this vulnerability.
For more information about this vulnerability, how to obtain the new version, or how to install the new version, please see OSIsoft’s alert, AL00320, on their web site at the following location:
https://techsupport.osisoft.com/Troubleshooting/Alerts/AL00320
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

CROSS-SITE REQUEST FORGERY (CSRF) CWE-352

This product contains a cross-site request forgery vulnerability that may allow access to the PI system.
CVE-2017-9641 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:L/I:L/A:L).
RESEARCHER
OSIsoft reported this vulnerability to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Multiple Sectors
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: United States
