
CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Xiongmai Technology
Equipment: IP Cameras and DVRs
Vulnerability: Stack-based Buffer Overflow
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Xiongmai Technology IP cameras and DVRs are affected:

All IP Cameras and DVRs using the NetSurveillance Web interface.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could cause the device to reboot and return to a more vulnerable state in which Telnet is accessible.
MITIGATION
Xiongmai Technology has not responded to requests to coordinate with NCCIC/ICS-CERT.
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121

The stack-based buffer overflow vulnerability has been identified, which may allow an attacker to execute code remotely or crash the device. After rebooting, the device restores itself to a more vulnerable state in which Telnet is accessible.
CVE-2017-16725 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Independent researcher Clinton Mielke reported this vulnerability to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Unknown
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: China
