
OVERVIEW
NCCIC/ICS-CERT received a report from Ariele Caltabiano (kimiya) with HP’s Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) concerning a buffer overflow vulnerability in Schneider Electric’s SoMove Lite software package. While addressing this vulnerability, Schneider Electric identified multiple vulnerable Schneider Electric products. Schneider Electric has produced a patch that mitigates this vulnerability.
This vulnerability could be exploited remotely.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Schneider Electric software platforms install affected Device Type Managers (DTMs) with an affected DLL:

Unity Pro, all versions;
SoMachine, all versions;
SoMove, all versions; and
SoMove Lite, all versions.

The following Schneider Electric DTM libraries are affected:

Modbus Communication Library, Version 2.2.6 and prior;
CANopen Communication Library, Version 1.0.2 and prior;
EtherNet/IP Communication Library, Version 1.0.0 and prior;
EM X80 Gateway DTM (MB TCP/SL);
Advantys DTMs (OTB, STB);
KINOS DTM;
SOLO DTM; and
Xantrex DTMs.

IMPACT
Successfully exploiting this vulnerability could allow a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code.
Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization. ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of this vulnerability based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation.
BACKGROUND
Schneider Electric’s corporate headquarters is located in Paris, France, and maintains offices in more than 100 countries worldwide.
Unity Pro is a development software to test, debug, and manage applications. SoMachine is a single software environment for developing, configuring, and commissioning automation machinery. SoMove is a setup software for motor control devices. Schneider Electric estimates that these products are used globally.
VULNERABILITY CHARACTERIZATION
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOWCWE-121: Stack-based Buffer Overflow, http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/121.html, web site last accessed January 27, 2015.

A DLL in a DTM development kit which is installed during DTM set up could be vulnerable to a buffer overflow that may allow an attacker to remotely execute code.
CVE-2014-9200NVD, http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2014-9200, NIST uses this advisory to create the CVE web site report. This web site will be active sometime after publication of this advisory. has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v2 base score of 7.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/Au:N/C:P/I:P/A:P).CVSS Calculator, http://nvd.nist.gov/cvss.cfm?version=2&vector=AV:N/AC:L/Au:N/C:P/I:P/A:P, web site last accessed January 27, 2015.
VULNERABILITY DETAILS
EXPLOITABILITY
This vulnerability could be exploited remotely.
EXISTENCE OF EXPLOIT
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
DIFFICULTY
An attacker with low skill would be able to exploit this vulnerability.
MITIGATION
Schneider Electric has released a patch that resolves the vulnerability by removing the vulnerable DLL. Schneider Electric’s patch is available at the follow location:
http://download.schneider-electric.com/files?p_Doc_Ref=FDT1 DLL Removal Kit.
Schneider Electric’s security notice SEVD-2015-009-01 is available at the following location:
http://download.schneider-electric.com/files?p_Doc_Ref=SEVD-2015-009-01.
ICS-CERT encourages asset owners to take additional defensive measures to protect against this and other cybersecurity risks.

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page at: http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/content/recommended-practices. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies. ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/).
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
