
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.1
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Mendix
Vulnerability: Improper Privilege Management

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a non-administrative user to gain administrative privileges.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports the vulnerability affects the following Mendix products:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 7: All versions prior to v7.23.19
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8: All versions prior to v8.17.0
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8 (v8.12): All versions prior to v8.12.5
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8 (v8.6): All versions prior to v8.6.9
Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: All versions prior to v9.0.5

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER PRIVILEGE MANAGEMENT CWE-269
Authenticated, non-administrative users could modify their privileges by manipulating the user role under certain circumstances, allowing them to gain administrative privileges.
CVE-2021-27394 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N). 
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
FlowFabric BV reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Mendix has released an update for Mendix and recommends updating to the latest version. In SSA-875726, Siemens lists the following remediations:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 7: Update Mendix Project to v7.23.19 or later version and redeploy the application.
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8: Update Mendix Project to v8.17.0 or later version and redeploy the application.
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8 (v8.12): Update Mendix Project to v8.12.5 or later and preferably the latest V8.18 version and redeploy the application.
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8 (v8.6): Update Mendix Project to v8.6.9 or later and preferably the latest V8.18 version and redeploy the application.
Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: Update Mendix Project to v9.0.5 or later version and redeploy the application.

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security, and following the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on Industrial Security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
