
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.6
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Opcenter Quality
Vulnerability: Incorrect Implementation of Authentication Algorithm.

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow unauthenticated access to the application or cause denial of service condition for existing users.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports this vulnerability affects the following quality management systems: 

Opcenter Quality V13.1: All versions prior to v13.1.20220624 
Opcenter Quality V13.2: All versions prior to v13.2.20220624 

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    INCORRECT IMPLEMENTATION OF AUTHENTICATION ALGORITHM CWE-303
The affected applications do not properly validate login information during authentication. This could lead to denial-of-service condition for existing users or allow unauthenticated remote attackers to successfully login without credentials.
CVE-2022-33736 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.6 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released updates for the affected products and recommends updating to the latest versions:

Opcenter Quality V13.1: Update to v13.1.20220624 or later version.
Opcenter Quality V13.2: Update to v13.2.20220624 or later version.

Siemens recommends implementing the following specific workarounds and mitigations that customers can apply to reduce the risk:

Solutions with configuration as Encryted=2 in ibs.config are potentially impacted by this vulnerability.  If problems exist and an immediate replacement of IbsGailWrapper-DLLs is NOT possible, please contact your support-team to change the secure mode of your installation
For all other cases it is recommended to replace the IbsGailWrapper-DLLs for short-term 

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals to help foster a secure environment.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity 
For more information on this vulnerability and associated software updates, please see Siemens security advisory SSA-944952
CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
