
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 6.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: Uni-Telway Driver
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to perform a denial of service.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports the following products are affected:

Schneider Electric Uni-Telway Driver: All versions
Schneider Electric Uni-Telway Driver installed on Control Expert: All versions
Schneider Electric Uni-Telway Driver installed on Process Expert: All versions
Schneider Electric Uni-Telway Driver installed on Process Expert for AVEVA System Platform: All versions
Schneider Electric Uni-Telway Driver installed on OPC Factory Server: All versions

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
Schneider Electric Uni-Telway Driver is vulnerable to an improper input validation vulnerability that could cause denial-of-service of engineering workstations when a specific driver interface is invoked locally by an authenticated user with crafted input.
CVE-2024-10083 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-10083. A base score of 6.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/AT:N/PR:N/UI:A/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Sangjun Park, Jongseoung Kim, Byunghyun Kang, Yunjin Park, Albert Einstein, Kwon Yul, Seungchan Kim of today-0day reported this vulnerability to Schneider Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:
For users requiring the use of Uni-Telway Driver, Schneider Electric recommends using following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit:

McAfee Application and Change Control software for application control. Refer to the Cybersecurity Application Note available https://www.se.com/ww/en/download/document/EIO0000004778/.
Follow workstation, network, and site-hardening guidelines in the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document. For users not requiring the use of Uni-Telway driver, Schneider Electric recommends uninstalling the driver. Version 16.1 of EcoStruxure Control Expert does not include Uni-Telway driver by default anymore. This vulnerability is only affecting users who have installed Uni-Telway driver. To ensure users are informed of all updates, including details on affected products and remediation plans, subscribe to Schneider Electric's security notification service here: https://www.se.com/ww/en/work/support/cybersecurity/security-notifications.jsp

For more information see the associated Schneider Electric CPCERT security advisory SEVD-2025-042-02 Uni-Telway driver used in EcoStruxureTM Control Expert, EcoStruxureTM Process - SEVD-2025-042-02 PDF Version, Uni-Telway driver used in EcoStruxureTM Control Expert, EcoStruxureTM Process - SEVD-2025-042-02 CSAF Version.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

March 11, 2025: Initial Publication

