
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.5
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Omron
Equipment: Sysmac Studio, NX-IO Configurator
Vulnerability: Path Traversal

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to overwrite files on a system.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Omron engineering software are affected:

Sysmac Studio: version 1.54 and prior
NX-IO Configurator: version 1.22 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER LIMITATION OF A PATHNAME TO A RESTRICTED DIRECTORY ('PATH TRAVERSAL') CWE-22
DotNetZip.Semvered before 1.11.0 is vulnerable to directory traversal, which could allow attackers to write to arbitrary files via a ../ (dot dot slash) in a Zip archive entry mishandled during extraction. This vulnerability is also known as "Zip-Slip."
CVE-2018-1002205 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Japan

3.4 RESEARCHER
Reid Wightman of Dragos reported this vulnerability to CISA. Michael Heinzl reported the Zip-Slip vulnerability to JPCERT/CC.
4. MITIGATIONS
OMRON recommends the following general mitigation measures to minimize the risk of vulnerability exploitation:

Anti-virus protection:

Protect any PC with access to the control system against malware and ensure installation and maintenance of up-to-date commercial grade anti-virus software protections. 


Security measures to prevent unauthorized access:

Minimize connection of control systems and equipment to open networks so untrusted devices will be
		unable to access them.
Implement firewalls (by shutting down unused communications ports, limiting communications hosts,
		etc.) and isolate them from the IT network.
Use a virtual private network (VPN) for remote access to control systems and equipment.
Use strong passwords and change them frequently.
Install physical controls so only authorized personnel can access control systems and equipment.
Scan for viruses to ensure safety of any USB drives or similar devices before connecting them to
		systems and devices.
Enforce multifactor authentication whenever possible of all devices with remote access to control
		systems and equipment.



Data input and output protection:

Perform process validation, such as backup validation or range checks, to cope with unintentional
		modification of input/output data to control systems and devices.



Data recovery:

Periodical data backup and maintenance to prevent data loss.



Please see Omron's Advisory for more information.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

September 19, 2023: Initial Publication

