
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.5
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Mendix Applications
Vulnerability: Injection

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a malicious user to leak sensitive information if the Workflow visual language of Mendix is used.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Mendix Applications, high productivity app platform, are affected:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: All versions between v9.11 v9.15 
Mendix Applications using Mendix 9 (v9.12): All versions prior to v9.12.3

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF SPECIAL ELEMENTS IN OUTPUT USED BY A DOWNSTREAM COMPONENT ('INJECTION') CWE-74
An expression injection vulnerability was discovered in the Workflow subsystem of Mendix Runtime that can affect the running applications. The vulnerability could allow a malicious user to leak sensitive information in a certain configuration.
CVE-2022-34466 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide 
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends updating to the latest version of its software if available:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: Update to v9.15 or later
Mendix Applications using Mendix 9 (V9.12): Update to v9.12.3 or later

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ Operational Guidelines for Industrial Security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage.
For more information see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-492173.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. 
 
