
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.1
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: PowerLogic P5
Vulnerability: Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm

2. RISK EVALUATION
If an attacker has physical access to the device, it is possible to reboot the device, cause a denial of service condition, or gain full control of the relay by abusing a specially crafted reset token.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports the following products are affected:

Schneider Electric PowerLogic P5: Versions 01.500.104 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 USE OF A BROKEN OR RISKY CRYPTOGRAPHIC ALGORITHM CWE-327
A vulnerability exists, which could cause denial of service, a device reboot, or an attacker to gain full control of the relay. When a specially-crafted reset token is entered into the front panel of the device, an exploit exists due to the device's utilization of a risky cryptographic algorithm.
CVE-2024-5559 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.1 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:P/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Schneider Electric CPCERT reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Schneider Electric PowerLogic P5 v01.500.104 and prior: PowerLogic P5 Wave 4.2.3 P5L30 firmware includes a fix for this vulnerability. Contact Schneider Electric's Customer Care Center to download this firmware.

For more information see the associated Schneider Electric Security Notification SEVD-2024-163-02 in PDF and CSAF.
Schneider Electric recommends the following industry cybersecurity best practices:

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks.
Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in the "Program" mode.
Never connect programming software to any network other than the network intended for that device.
Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc. before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Never allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs). Recognize that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also, understand that VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices.

For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 26, 2024: Initial Publication

