
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Eaton
Equipment: Intelligent Power Manager
Vulnerabilities: Improper Input Validation, Incorrect Privilege Assignment

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to perform command injection or code execution and allow non-administrator users to manipulate the system configurations.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Intelligent Power Manager, a software monitoring and management platform, are affected:

Intelligent Power Manager v1.67 and prior

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
The affected product may not validate import configuration file names properly, which could allow an attacker to perform command injection or code execution.
CVE-2020-6651 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2    INCORRECT PRIVILEGE ASSIGNMENT CWE-266
The affected product may allow non-administrator users to upload the system configuration files by sending specially crafted requests, which could allow non-administrator users to manipulate the system configurations.
CVE-2020-6652 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Ireland

3.4 RESEARCHER
Sivathmican Sivakumaran of Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Eaton has released Intelligent Power Manager v1.68 to address the reported vulnerabilities. 
To prevent the exploitation of the issues and safeguard the software from malicious entities, Eaton recommends blocking Ports 4679 and 4680 at the enterprise network or home network where Intelligent Power Manager software is installed and used.
For additional information please see the Eaton Vulnerability Advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
