
CVSS v3 6.1
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Certec EDV GmbH
Equipment: atvise scada
Vulnerabilities: Cross-Site Scripting, Header Injection
UPDATE INFORMATION
This updated advisory is a follow-up to the original advisory titled ICSA-17-096-01 Certec EDV GmbH atvise scada that was published April 6, 2017, on the NCCIC/ICS-CERT web site.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of atvise scada, a human machine interface configuration platform, are affected:
--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 2 --------

atvise scada prior to Version 3.0 without the vendor built-in security mechanism activated.

--------- End Update A Part 1 of 2 ----------
IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could cause the device that the attacker is accessing to execute arbitrary code, affecting the integrity of the device.
MITIGATION
--------- Begin Update A Part 2 of 2 --------
Certec EDV GmbH advises affected users to activate the built-in security mechanism (login, https, protected calls, etc.) of the product as described in the documentation. Users can also upgrade to the newest version of the software available on the Certec EDV GmbH web site (a user login will be needed to obtain the latest version):
http://www.atvise.com/en/component/phocadownload/category/65-patches
In order to fully mitigate the vulnerabilities Certec EDV GmbH recommends that users follow the guidelines in the atvise scada documentation for enabling security measures that can be found in the following sections:

HTTP/HTTPS support,
Protected calls,
Login and user management, and
User and rights.

--------- End Update A Part 2 of 2 ----------
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF HTTP HEADERS FOR SCRIPTING SYNTAX CWE-644

The header injection vulnerability has been identified, which may allow remote code execution.
CVE-2017-6031 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.1 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:L/I:L/A:N).

CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING CWE-79

The cross-site scripting vulnerability has been identified, which may allow remote code execution.
CVE-2017-6029 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.4 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:C/C:L/I:L/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Sebastian Neef of Internetwache.org discovered the vulnerabilities.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Critical Manufacturing
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Eisenstadt, Austria
