
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity 
Vendor: Siemens ProductCERT 
Equipment: Mendix Forgot Password Module 
Vulnerability: Observable Response Discrepancy 

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of the vulnerability could allow an attacker to retrieve sensitive information. 
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following software from Siemens is affected: 

Mendix Forgot Password (Mendix 7 compatible): Versions prior to 3.7.1 
Mendix Forgot Password (Mendix 8 compatible): Version prior to 4.1.1 
Mendix Forgot Password (Mendix 9 compatible): Version prior to 5.1.1 

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 OBSERVABLE RESPONSE DISCREPANCY CWE-204 
The affected versions of the module contain an observable response discrepancy issue that could allow an attacker to retrieve sensitive information. 
CVE-2023-27464 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N). 
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple 
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide 
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany 

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA. 
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released updates for the affected products and recommends users update to the latest versions: 

Mendix Forgot Password (Mendix 9 compatible): Update to V5.1.1 or later version 
Mendix Forgot Password (Mendix 8 compatible): Update to V4.1.1 or later version 
Mendix Forgot Password (Mendix 7 compatible): Update to V3.7.1 or later version 

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security, and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals. Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at the Siemens Industrial Security web page. 
For further inquiries on security vulnerabilities in Siemens products and solutions, users should contact the Siemens ProductCERT. 
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-699404 in HTML and CSAF. 
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks: 

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages. 
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams. 
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks. 

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. 
