
CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit. Public exploits are available.
Vendor: mySCADA
Equipment: myPRO
Vulnerability: Unquoted Search Path
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of myPRO, an HMI/SCADA management platform, are affected:

myPRO Versions 7.0.26 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow an authenticated, but nonprivileged, local user to execute arbitrary code with elevated privileges.
MITIGATION
mySCADA has released new versions that address the identified vulnerability. mySCADA recommends users update to the latest version which can be found at this location:
https://www.myscada.org/download/
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

This vulnerability is not remotely exploitable.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

UNQUOTED SEARCH PATH OR ELEMENT CWE-428

Application services utilize unquoted search path elements, which could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code with elevated privileges.
CVE-2017-12730 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen reported this vulnerability to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Energy, Food and Agriculture, Transportation Systems, and Water and Wastewater Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Czech Republic
