
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.1
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity  
Vendor: Siemens 
Equipment: PLM Help Server  
Vulnerability:  Cross-site Scripting 

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute code after tricking users into accessing malicious links. 
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Siemens PLM Help Server, a documentation server, are affected: 

Version 4.2  

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF INPUT DURING WEB PAGE GENERATION ('CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING') CWE-79 
A reflected cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability exists in the web interface of the affected application that could allow an attacker to execute malicious javascript code by tricking users into accessing a malicious link. 
CVE-2022-44575 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:L/I:L/A:N). 
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing  
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide 
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
 Michael Heinzl reported this vulnerability to Siemens. 
4. MITIGATIONS
This product has reached end-of-life, and security vulnerabilities are no longer patched. Siemens released a new version of Documentation Server, which fixes this vulnerability. 
Siemens recommends upgrading to Siemens Documentation Server V2.1 or later versions. Once the new Documentation Server is installed, users should download and install the documentation packages. Information on installation is included in the install guides. Refer to PL8681100 (login required) for additional information. 
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk: 
Do not open unknown links while working on PLM Help Server V4.2 
As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends to configure the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals. 
For more information, see Siemens security advisory SSA-274282 in HTML or CSAF. 
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks: 

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages. 
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams. 
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks. 

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. 
