
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 8.6
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Verve Reporting
Vulnerability: Dependency on Vulnerable Third-Party Component

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could lead to arbitrary code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Verve Reporting are affected:

Verve Reporting: Versions prior to 1.39

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 DEPENDENCY ON VULNERABLE THIRD-PARTY COMPONENT CWE-1395
Verve Reporting utilizes Kibana, which contains a remote code execution vulnerability that allows an attacker with access to ML and alerting connecting features as well as write access to internal ML to trigger a prototype pollution vulnerability, which can ultimately lead to arbitrary code execution. The code execution is limited to the container.
CVE-2024-37287 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-37287. A base score of 8.6 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:H/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell recommends users to apply the following mitigation and follow their security best practices:

Restrict Access to Built-in Verve Account

Access to the built-in "verve" account should be limited to only administrators who need to perform administrative functions and should only be used for administrative purposes. Separate accounts should be used for day-to-day functions.
Change the password for the built-in "verve" account if it has been shared.


Restrict Privileges for Other Accounts

Verve Reporting comes with built-in roles to simplify the delegation of user permissions. Assigning a user the following two roles will allow them access to most Verve Reporting features (excluding user administration), but will not give them permission to execute this vulnerability.

all-all
feature-all-all




Disable Machine Learning

Machine learning can be disabled in the Elasticsearch configuration override. Contact Verve support for assistance if needed.

Connect to the Reporting server via SSH or terminal.
Copy the Elasticsearch configuration override to the working directory.

docker exec $(docker ps --filter "name=Reporting_elasticsearch" --format "{{ .ID }}") cat /usr/share/elasticsearch/config-templates/elasticsearch.override.yml > elasticsearch.override.yml


Add the following line and save.

xpack.ml.enabled: false


Disable Verve Reporting from the Verve Software Manager.
Update the Elasticsearch configuration override.

docker config rm elasticsearchymloverride
docker config create elasticsearchymloverride ./elasticsearch.override.yml


Enable Verve Reporting from the Verve Software Manager and confirm that the application starts and "Machine Learning" is no longer listed in the main navigation bar under Analytics.
Delete the copy of the Elasticsearch configuration override.

rm elasticsearch.override.yml






Security Best Practices

For more information, please see the Rockwell Automation security advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 14, 2024: Initial Publication
November 18, 2024: Update A - Corrected affected product name and version range

