
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 7.0
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: AVEVA
Equipment: PI Asset Framework Client
Vulnerability: Deserialization of Untrusted Data

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow malicious code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of AVEVA PI Asset Framework Client, a tool to model either physical or logical objects, are affected:

PI Asset Framework Client: 2023
PI Asset Framework Client: 2018 SP3 P04 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Deserialization of Untrusted Data CWE-502
There is a vulnerability in AVEVA PI Asset Framework Client that could allow malicious code to execute on the PI System Explorer environment under the privileges of an interactive user that was socially engineered to import XML supplied by an attacker.
CVE-2024-3467 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-3467. A base score of 7.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:L/AC:L/AT:N/PR:L/UI:A/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United Kingdom

3.4 RESEARCHER
AVEVA reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
AVEVA recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of these vulnerabilities based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation. Customers using affected products should apply security updates as soon as possible:

(Recommended) All affected versions can be fixed by upgrading to PI AF Client 2023 Patch 1 or later:From OSI Soft Customer Portal, search for "Asset Framework" and select "PI Asset Framework (AF) Client 2023 Patch 1" or later.
(Alternative) AF Client 2018 SP3 P04 and prior can be fixed by deploying PI AF Client 2018 SP3 Patch 5 or later:From OSI Soft Customer Portal, search for "Asset Framework" and select either "PI Asset Framework (AF) Client 2018 SP3 Patch 5" or later.

AVEVA further recommends users follow general defensive measures:

Run PI System Explorer as a least privilege interactive account when possible.
Establish procedures for verifying the source of XML is trusted before importing into PI System Explorer.

For additional information please refer to AVEVA-2024-004
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

June 11, 2024: Initial Publication

