
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity 
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Solid Edge
Vulnerability: Heap-based Buffer Overflow

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the current process. 
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Siemens Solid Edge, a portfolio of software tools, are affected:

Solid Edge: all versions prior to SE2022MP9

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    HEAP-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-122
Siemens Solid Edge, versions prior to SE2022MP9, contains an out-of-bounds write past the fixed-length heap-based buffer while parsing specially crafted DWG files. This could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2022-37864 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
rgod working with Trend Micro Zero Day Initiative reported this vulnerability to Siemens and CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends users to update to the latest version:

Update to SE2022MP9 or a later version (login required).

Siemens has also identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Avoid opening untrusted DWG files in Solid Edge.

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for Industrial Security and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals.
For more information, see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-258115 in HTML or CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
