
CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SWT3000
Vulnerabilities: Improper Authentication, Authentication Bypass, Improper Input Validation.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports that the vulnerabilities affect the following SWT 3000 Teleprotection system products:

EN100 for SWT3000 (iSWT3000):

IEC 61850 firmware: All versions prior to V4.29.01
TPOP firmware: All versions prior to V01.01.00



IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities under certain conditions may allow attackers to perform a denial-of-service attack.
MITIGATION
Siemens has provided updated firmware that fixes the vulnerabilities for the following affected products and recommends users update to the newest version:

SWT3000:

IEC61850 firmware: Update to V4.29.01
TPOP firmware: Update to V01.01.00



To obtain the firmware please contact the Customer Support Center:
support.energy@siemens.com
Siemens recommends users protect network access with appropriate mechanisms. Siemens also advises that users configure the operational environment according to Siemens’ Operational Guidelines for Industrial Security:
https://www.siemens.com/cert/operational-guidelines-industrial-security
Please note that not all of the devices above are affected by all vulnerabilities. For more information on these vulnerabilities and more detailed mitigation instructions, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-350846 at the following location:
http://www.siemens.com/cert/advisories
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287

The integrated web server (Port 80/TCP) of the affected devices could allow remote attackers to obtain sensitive device information if network access was obtained. SWT3000 with TPOP is not affected by this vulnerability.
CVE-2016-4784 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).

IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287

The integrated web server (Port 80/TCP) of the affected devices could allow remote attackers to obtain a limited amount of device memory content if network access was obtained. SWT3000 with TPOP is not affected by this vulnerability.
CVE-2016-4785 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).

AUTHENTICATION BYPASS USING AN ALTERNATE PATH OR CHANNEL CWE-288

Attackers with network access to the device’s web interface (Port 80/TCP) could possibly circumvent authentication and perform certain administrative operations.
CVE-2016-7112 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).

IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20

Specially crafted packets sent to Port 80/TCP could cause the affected EN100 module of the SWT3000 to go into defect mode.
CVE-2016-7113 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L).

AUTHENTICATION BYPASS USING AN ALTERNATE PATH OR CHANNEL CWE-288

Attackers with network access to the device’s web interface (Port 80/TCP) could possibly circumvent authentication and perform certain administrative operations. A legitimate user must be logged into the web interface for the attack to be successful.
CVE-2016-7114 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Siemens reported these vulnerabilities to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Germany
