
Overview
Independent researchers Billy Rios and Terry McCorkle have identified a Path Traversal vulnerability in the Ecava IntegraXor application. Ecava has produced an update that mitigates this vulnerability. The researchers have validated that the patch fixes this vulnerability.
Affected Products
According to Ecava, the following products are affected:

IntegraXor versions older than Version 3.71.4200

Impact
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may result in file manipulation or arbitrary code execution.
Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization. ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of this vulnerability based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation.
Background
Ecava Sdn Bhd is a Malaysia-based software development company that provides the IntegraXor SCADA product. Ecava specializes in factory and process automation solutions.
IntegraXor is a suite of tools used to create and run a web-based human-machine interface for a SCADA system.
IntegraXor is currently used in several areas of process control in 38 countries with the largest installation based in the United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Poland, Canada, and Estonia.
Vulnerability Characterization
Vulnerability Overview
A path traversal vulnerability can occur when a specially crafted HTML document is opened on the Ecava IntegraXor server. Successful exploitation could allow file manipulation or arbitrary code execution. This vulnerability is only exploitable while using Internet Explorer due to the proprietary Active X component. No other web browsers are affected by this vulnerability.
CVE-2012-0246 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS V2 base score of 4.3 has also been assigned.
Vulnerability Details
Exploitability
This vulnerability is remotely exploitable.
Existence of Exploit
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
Difficulty
Crafting a working exploit for this vulnerability requires a medium skill level. Social engineering is required to convince the user to accept the malformed HTML file.
Mitigation
Ecava recommends users to download and install update from their website.
ICS-CERT encourages asset owners to take additional defensive measures to protect against this and other cybersecurity risks.

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Critical devices should not directly face the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP) also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the CSSP web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in e-mail messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding e-mail scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

