
CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SiPass integrated
Vulnerabilities:  Improper Authentication, Improper Privilege Management, Channel Accessible by Non-Endpoint, Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports that the vulnerabilities affect the following SiPass integrated access control system:

SiPass integrated: All versions prior to V2.70

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an unauthenticated attacker with network access to the server to perform administrative operations.
MITIGATION
Siemens provides SiPass integrated V2.70, which fixes the vulnerabilities, and recommends users update to the new version. The new version can be obtained from Siemens customer support or from authorized partners.
For more information on these vulnerabilities and more detailed mitigation instructions, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-339433 at the following location:
http://www.siemens.com/cert/advisories
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287

An attacker with network access to the SiPass integrated server could bypass the authentication mechanism and perform administrative operations.
CVE-2017-9939 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

IMPROPER PRIVILEGE MANAGEMENT CWE-269

An attacker with access to a low-privileged user account can read or write files on the file system of the SiPass integrated server over the network.
CVE-2017-9940 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N).

CHANNEL ACCESSIBLE BY NON-ENDPOINT ('MAN-IN-THE-MIDDLE') CWE-300

An attacker in a Man-in-the-Middle position between the SiPass integrated server and SiPass integrated clients could read or modify the network communication.
CVE-2017-9941 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N).

STORING PASSWORDS IN A RECOVERABLE FORMAT CWE-257

An attacker with local access to the SiPass integrated server or SiPass integrated client could potentially obtain credentials from the systems.
CVE-2017-9942 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Siemens reported these vulnerabilities.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Energy, Healthcare and Public Health, Transportation Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Germany
