
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity 
Vendor: Horner Automation 
Equipment: Cscape Envision RV 
Vulnerabilities: Out-of-bounds Read, Out-of-bounds Write 

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could lead to an attacker executing arbitrary code via malicious project files. 
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following version of Cscape Envision RV, a control system remote access management software, is affected: 

Cscape Envision RV: Version 4.60 

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125 
 Cscape Envision RV version 4.60 is vulnerable to an out-of-bounds read vulnerability when parsing project (i.e. HMI) files. The product lacks proper validation of user-supplied data, which could result in reads past the end of allocated data structures. An attacker could leverage these vulnerabilities to execute arbitrary code in the context of the current process. 
CVE-2023-0621 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H). 
3.2.2 OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787 
Cscape Envision RV version 4.60 is vulnerable to an out-of-bounds write vulnerability when parsing project (i.e. HMI) files. The product lacks proper validation of user-supplied data, which could result in writes past the end of allocated data structures. An attacker could leverage these vulnerabilities to execute arbitrary code in the context of the current process. 
CVE-2023-0622 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H). 
3.2.3 OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787 
Cscape Envision RV version 4.60 is vulnerable to an out-of-bounds write vulnerability when parsing project (i.e. HMI) files. The product lacks proper validation of user-supplied data, which could result in writes past the end of allocated data structures. An attacker could leverage these vulnerabilities to execute arbitrary code in the context of the current process. 
CVE-2023-0623 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H). 
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing 
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide 
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States 

3.4 RESEARCHER
Michael Heinzl reported these vulnerabilities to CISA. 
4. MITIGATIONS
Horner Automation fixed these vulnerabilities in Version 4.70, and recommends all users update affected devices to the latest versions. 
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents. 
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks: 

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages. 
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams. 
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks. 

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely. 
