
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Simcenter Femap
Vulnerability: Out-of-bounds Write

2. RISK EVALUATION
If a user is tricked into opening a malicious file with the affected application, then this vulnerability could allow remote code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports the following versions of Simcenter Femap, a complex model simulator, are affected:

All versions prior to v2022.2

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The affected application contains an out-of-bounds write past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted X_T files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2022-34748 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends customers update Simcenter Femap to version 2022.22 or later. Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce the risk:

Do not open untrusted X_T files in Simcenter Femap.

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends appropriate mechanisms to protect network access to devices. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security and following the product manuals’ recommendations.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage.
For more information, see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-474231
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
