
CVSS v3 7.3
ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: LCDS - Leão Consultoria e Desenvolvimento de Sistemas Ltda ME
Equipment: LAquis SCADA
Vulnerability: Improper Access Control
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of LAquis SCADA, an industrial automation software, are affected:

LAquis SCADA software, Versions 4.1 and prior versions released before January 20, 2017.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow authenticated system users to escalate their privileges and modify or replace application files.
MITIGATION
LCDS recommends that users install the update that can be found at this location:
http://laquisscada.com/instale1.php
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not remotely exploitable.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER ACCESS CONTROL CWE-284

An Improper Access Control vulnerability has been identified, which may allow an authenticated user to modify application files to escalate privileges.
CVE-2017-6016 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen identified and reported the vulnerability to ICS-CERT and tested the update.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Chemical, Commercial Facilities, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: South America
Company Headquarters Location: Joinville–SC, Brazil
