
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.7
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Eaton
Equipment: Intelligent Power Manager Infrastructure
Vulnerabilities: Cross-site Scripting, Reflected Cross-site Scripting, Improper Neutralization of Formula in a CSV File

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code using untrusted data.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Eaton Intelligent power monitoring products are affected:

Eaton Intelligent Power Manager Infrastructure (IPM Infrastructure): All versions including v1.5.0 plus205

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF INPUT DURING WEB PAGE GENERATION ('CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING') CWE-79
The affected product has reached its End of Life, it is vulnerable to a stored cross-site scripting vulnerability due to insufficient validation of input from certain resources by the IPM Infrastructure software. The attacker would need access to the local Subnet and an administrator interaction to compromise the system.
CVE-2021-23284 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:H).
3.2.2    IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF INPUT DURING WEB PAGE GENERATION ('CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING') CWE-79
The affected product has reached its End of Life, it is vulnerable to a reflected cross-site scripting vulnerability due to insufficient validation of input from certain resources by the IPM Infrastructure software. The attacker would need access to the local Subnet and an administrator interaction to compromise the system.
CVE-2021-23285 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 3.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:H/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).
3.2.3    IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF FORMULA ELEMENTS IN A CSV FILE CWE-1236
The affected product has reached its End of Life, it is vulnerable to a CSV Formula Injection. The vulnerability exists due to improper sanitization of imported CSV files. The attacker would need access to the local Subnet and an administrator interaction to compromise the system.
CVE-2021-23286 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:L/PR:H/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Ireland

3.4 RESEARCHER
Michael Heinzl reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
The product has reached its End Of Life, the notification has been posted at: Lifecycle Notification. The transition to IPM Monitor Edition is in progress. Refer the Product page for further details.
Until the transition is complete, Eaton recommends the below guidelines should be followed.

To prevent the exploitation of the issues and safeguard the software from malicious entities, ensure access to the system is provided to the known users and the credentials are secured.

Eaton recommends users follow the security best practices and configure the logical access mechanisms provided in IPM to safeguard the application from unauthorized access. IPM provides various types of administrative, operational, configuration privilege levels. Use the available access control mechanisms properly to ensure system and application access is restricted to legitimate users only. Ensure users are restricted to only the privilege levels necessary to complete their job roles/functions.

Restrict exposure to external networks for all control system devices and/or systems and ensure they are not directly accessible from the open Internet.
Deploy control system networks and remote devices behind barrier devices (e.g. firewalls, data diodes) and isolate them from business networks.
Remote access to control system networks should be made available on a strict need-to-use basis. Remote access should use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), updated to the most current version available.
Regularly update software and applications to latest versions available, as applicable.
Enable audit logs on all devices and applications.
Disable/deactivate unused communication channels, TCP/UDP ports and services (e.g., SNMP, FTP, BootP, DHCP, etc.) on networked devices.
Create security zones for devices with common security requirements using barrier devices (e.g., firewalls, data diodes).
Change default passwords following initial startup. Use complex secure passwords or passphrases.
Perform regular security assessments and risk analysis of networked control systems.

For additional information, please visit Eaton’s cybersecurity website.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
