
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


CVSS v3 7.3

ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Delta Electronics
Equipment: Delta Industrial Automation DOPSoft
Vulnerabilities: Out-of-bounds Read, Heap-based Buffer Overflow, Stack-based Buffer Overflow

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow a remote attacker to read sensitive information, execute arbitrary code, and/or crash the application.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of DOPSoft, a Human Machine Interface (HMI) editing software, are affected:

DOPSoft Version 4.00.04 and prior.

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The application performs read operations on a memory buffer where the position can be determined by a value read from a .dpa file. This may cause improper restriction of operations within the bounds of the memory buffer, allow remote code execution, alter the intended control flow, allow reading of sensitive information, or cause the application to crash.
CVE-2018-10623 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
3.2.2 HEAP-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-122
The application utilizes a fixed-length heap buffer where a value larger than the buffer can be read from a .dpa file into the buffer, causing the buffer to be overwritten. This may allow remote code execution or cause the application to crash.
CVE-2018-10617 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
3.2.3 STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121
The application utilizes a fixed-length stack buffer where a value larger than the buffer can be read from a .dpa file into the buffer, causing the buffer to be overwritten. This may allow remote code execution or cause the application to crash.
CVE-2018-10621 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Taiwan

3.4 RESEARCHER
B0nd @garagehackers working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative reported the vulnerabilities to NCCIC.
4. MITIGATIONS
Delta Electronics recommends affected users update to the latest version found at:
http://www.deltaww.com/Products/PluginWebUserControl/downloadCenterCounter.aspx?DID=9063&DocPath=1&hl=en-US
Delta Electronics also recommends affected users restrict the interaction with the application to trusted files.
NCCIC recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS-CERT website in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation to other incidents.
NCCIC also recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
