
CVSS v3 8.2
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Envitech Ltd.
Equipment: EnviDAS Ultimate
Vulnerability: Improper Authentication
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of EnviDAS Ultimate, a web application for environmental monitoring, are affected:

EnviDAS Ultimate Versions prior to v1.0.0.5

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to view and edit settings without authenticating and execute code remotely.
MITIGATION
Envitech Ltd., recommends that users of affected versions update to the latest version of v1.0.0.5 or newer. The update can be obtained by contacting Envitech Ltd., support at the following email:
david.farhi@envitech.co.il
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287

The web application lacks proper authentication which could allow an attacker to view information and modify settings or execute code remotely.
CVE-2017-9625 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.2 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:L/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Can Demirel and Deniz Çevik of Biznet Bilisim discovered the vulnerability and tested the patch.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Commercial Facilities, Communications, Water and Wastewater Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Israel
