
CVSS v3 7.5
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable
Vendor: Hyundai Motor America
Equipment: Blue Link
Vulnerability: Man-in-the-Middle, Use of Hard-Coded Cryptographic Key
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Blue Link, a mobile application for Hyundai vehicle management, are affected:

Blue Link Version 3.9.5, and
Blue Link Version 3.9.4.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities may allow a remote attacker to gain access to insecurely transmitted sensitive information, which could allow the attacker to locate, unlock, and start a vehicle associated with the affected application.
Rapid7 working with Hyundai Motor America reports that it would be difficult to impossible to conduct this attack at scale, since an attacker would typically need to first subvert physically local networks, or gain a privileged position on the network path from the app user to their service instance.
MITIGATION
Hyundai Motor America released Blue Link, Version 3.9.6, a mandatory update to the application, which mitigates the aforementioned vulnerabilities on March 6, 2017, for Android devices and March 8, 2017, for iOS devices.
Rapid7 has released a security advisory that can be found at https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog/2017/04/25/r7-2017-02-hyundai-blue-link-potential-info-disclosure-fixed
ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. High skill level is needed to exploit.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

MAN-IN-THE-MIDDLE CWE-300

Communication channel endpoints are not verified, which may allow a remote attacker to access or influence communications between the identified endpoints.
CVE-2017-6052 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.6 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).

USE OF HARD-CODED CRYPTOGRAPHIC KEY CWE-321

The application uses a hard-coded decryption password to protect sensitive user information.
CVE-2017-6054 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
These vulnerabilities were discovered by Will Hatzer and Arjun Kumar working with Rapid7.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Transportation Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: United States
Company Headquarters Location: Fountain Valley, California
