
CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: 7KT PAC1200 data manager
Vulnerability: Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports that the vulnerability affects the following versions of the 7KT PAC1200 data manager (7KT1260) from the SENTRON portfolio:

7KT PAC1200 data manager: All versions prior to V2.03

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to bypass authentication mechanisms and perform administrative functions.
MITIGATION
Siemens provides firmware Version V2.03 for 7KT PAC1200 data manager (7KT1260) from the SENTRON portfolio, which fixes the vulnerability and recommends users update to the new fixed version. The firmware update V2.0.3 for 7KT PAC1200 data manager (7KT1260) from the SENTRON portfolio can be found on the Siemens web site at the following location:
https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/ww/de/view/109749883/en?dl=en
As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to the devices with appropriate mechanisms. Siemens advises configuring the environment according to Siemens operational guidelines in order to run the devices in a protected IT environment.
https://www.siemens.com/cert/operational-guidelines-industrial-security
For more information on this vulnerability and more detailed mitigation instructions, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-971654 at the following location:
http://www.siemens.com/cert/en/cert-security-advisories.htm
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

AUTHENTICATION BYPASS USING AN ALTERNATE PATH OR CHANNEL CWE-288

The integrated web server (Port 80/TCP) of the affected devices could allow an unauthenticated remote attacker to perform administrative operations over the network.
CVE-2017-9944 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Maxim Rupp reported this vulnerability directly to Siemens.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Germany
