
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity/public exploits are available
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: EcoStruxure Operator Terminal Expert VXDZ
Vulnerability: Improper Control of Generation of Code ('Code Injection')

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code and gain access to sensitive information on the machine.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Schneider Electric EcoStruxure Operator Terminal Expert, a human machine interface (HMI) application, are affected:

EcoStruxure Operator Terminal Expert: Versions 3.3 SP1 and prior

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 IMPROPER CONTROL OF GENERATION OF CODE ('CODE INJECTION') CWE-94
Schneider Electric EcoStruxure operator Terminal Expert versions 3.3 SP1 and prior are vulnerable to a code injection attack that could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code and gain access to all information on the machine.
CVE-2023-1049 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Daan Keuper & Thijs Alkemade from Computest working with Trend Micro Zero Day Initiative reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has released EcoStruxure Operation Terminal Expert v3.4 for users to download.
Customers should use appropriate patching methodologies when applying these patches to their systems. We strongly recommend the use of back-ups and evaluating the impact of these patches in a Test and Development environment or on an offline infrastructure. Contact Schneider Electric’s Customer Care Center if you need assistance removing a patch.
For more information, see Schneider Electric’s Advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
