
CVSS v3 6.3
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Delta Electronics
Equipment: Delta Industrial Automation DOPSoft
Vulnerability: Stack-based Buffer Overflow
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following version of Delta Industrial Automation DOPSoft, a human machine interface (HMI), is affected:

Delta Industrial Automation DOPSoft, Version 4.00.01 or prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could cause the device the attacker is accessing to crash; a buffer overflow condition may allow remote code execution.
MITIGATION
Delta Electronics recommends affected users update to the latest version of DOPSoft Version 4.00.04, which is available for download at:
http://www.deltaww.com/Products/PluginWebUserControl/downloadCenterCounter.aspx?DID=9063&DocPath=1&hl=en-US.
Delta Electronics also recommends users restrict the interaction with the application to trusted files.
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the NCCIC Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT website.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121

Stack-based buffer overflow vulnerabilities caused by processing specially crafted .dop or .dpb files may allow an attacker to remotely execute arbitrary code.
CVE-2018-5476 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
RESEARCHER
Ghirmay Desta working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) reported this vulnerability to NCCIC.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Commercial Facilities, Communications, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Healthcare and Public Health
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Taiwan
