
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.7 
ATTENTION: Public exploits are available
Vendor: Hitachi Energy
Equipment: MicroSCADA Pro/X SYS600 Products
Vulnerabilities: Permissions, Privileges, and Access Controls

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code on the affected product.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Hitachi Energy’s MicroSCADA Pro/X SYS600 products are affected:

SYS600: 9.4 FP2 Hotfix 5 and earlier
SYS600: 10.1.1 and earlier

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 Incorrect Authorization CWE-863 
The ActiveBar ActiveX control distributed in ActBar.ocx 1.0.3.8 in SYS600 product does not properly restrict the SetLayoutData method, which could allow attackers to execute arbitrary code via a crafted data argument.
CVE-2011-1207 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Switzerland

3.4 RESEARCHER
Hitachi Energy reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Hitachi Energy has released the following mitigations/fixes:

SYS600 9.x: upgrade to at least SYS600 version 10.2 or apply general mitigation factors.
SYS600 10.x update to at least SYS600 version 10.2 or apply general mitigation factors.

Hitachi Energy recommends general mitigation factors and workarounds:

Recommended security practices and firewall configurations can help protect a process control network from attacks originating from outside the network.
Keep process control systems physically protected from direct access by unauthorized personnel.
Ensure process control systems have no direct connections to the internet, are separated from other networks by means of a firewall system that has a minimal number of ports exposed, and other practices that must be evaluated case by case.
Avoid using process control systems for internet surfing, instant messaging, or receiving emails.
Carefully scan portable computers and removable storage media for malware before connection to a control system.
Ensure proper password policies and processes are followed.

Hitachi Energy recommends following the cybersecurity deployment guideline as follows: 1MRK511518 MicroSCADA X Cyber Security Deployment Guideline. 
For more information, see Hitachi Energy cybersecurity advisory 8DBD000142.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
