
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 8.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: FactoryTalk View SE
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to inject a malicious SQL statement in the SQL database, resulting in expose sensitive information.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Rockwell Automation's FactoryTalk View SE, monitoring software, are affected:

FactoryTalk View SE: Versions prior to 14.0

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A vulnerability exists in the FactoryTalk View SE Datalog function that could allow a threat actor to inject a malicious SQL statement if the SQL database has no authentication in place or if legitimate credentials were stolen. If exploited, the attack could result in information exposure, revealing sensitive information. Additionally, a threat actor could potentially modify and delete the data in a remote database. An attack would only affect the HMI design time, not runtime.
CVE-2024-4609 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.6 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:L/A:L).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-4609. A base score of 8.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:N/UI:N/VC:H/VI:L/VA:L/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Chemical, Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Government Facilities, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell recommends users upgrade FactoryTalk View SE to version 14
For more information, refer to Rockwell Automation's security bulletin.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

May 16, 2024: Initial Publication

