
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Mendix 7, Mendix 8, Mendix 9, Mendix 10
Vulnerability: Authentication Bypass by Capture-Replay

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow authenticated attackers to access or modify objects without proper authorization or escalate privileges in the context of the vulnerable app.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Siemens Mendix Applications, are affected:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 7: all versions prior to V7.23.37
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8: all versions prior to V8.18.27
Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: all versions prior to V9.24.10
Mendix Applications using Mendix 10: all versions prior to V10.4.0

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 AUTHENTICATION BYPASS BY CAPTURE-REPLAY CWE-294
A capture-replay flaw in the platform could have an impact to apps built with the platform, if certain preconditions are met that depend on the app's model and access control design. This could allow authenticated attackers to access or modify objects without proper authorization, or escalate privileges in the context of the vulnerable app.
CVE-2023-45794 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 7: Update to V7.23.37 or later version and redeploy your application
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8: Update to V8.18.27 or later version and redeploy your application
Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: Update to V9.24.10 or later version and redeploy your application
Mendix Applications using Mendix 10: Update to V10.4.0 or later version and redeploy your application

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-084182 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 16, 2023: Initial Publication

