
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Fuji Electric
Equipment: Tellus Lite V-Simulator
Vulnerabilities: Stack-based Buffer Overflow, Out-of-bounds Write, Improper Access Control

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could crash the device being accessed, allow remote code execution, or overwrite files.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Fuji Electric reports that the following versions of Tellus Lite V-Simulator remote monitoring software are affected:

Tellus Lite V-Simulator: versions prior to V4.0.19.0

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Stack-based Buffer Overflow CWE-121
Stack-based buffer overflow may occur when Fuji Electric Tellus Lite V-Simulator parses a specially-crafted input file.
CVE-2023-35127 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2 Out-of-bounds Write CWE-787
When Fuji Electric Tellus Lite V-Simulator parses a specially-crafted input file an out of bounds write may occur.
CVE-2023-40152 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.3 Improper Access Control CWE-284
A user with a standard account in Fuji Electric Tellus Lite may overwrite files in the system.
CVE-2023-5299 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Japan

3.4 RESEARCHER
Fritz Sands and kimiya working with Trend Micro Zero Day Initiative reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Fuji Electric recommends users update Tellus Lite V-Simulator to version 4.0.19.0.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 21, 2023: Initial Publication

