
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.6
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation 
Equipment: GuardLogix, ControlLogix, Compact Logix, and Compact GaurdLogix controllers
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could potentially lead to degradation in availability of the controller and/or a possible major nonrecoverable fault.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Rockwell Automation reports this vulnerability affects the following controllers: 

CompactLogix 5370 Versions 20–33
Compact GuardLogix 5370 Versions 28–33
ControlLogix 5570 Versions 20–33
ControlLogix5570 redundancy Versions 20–33
GuardLogix 5570 Versions 20–33

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
An improper input validation vulnerability exists in affected versions of Rockwell Automation controllers that could allow a malformed CIP request to cause a major nonrecoverable fault and a denial-of-service condition.
CVE-2022-3157 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.6 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:N/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation has released product updates addressing this vulnerability:

For CompactLogix 5370, Compact GuardLogix 5370, ControlLogix 5570, GuardLogix 5570: Users should upgrade to versions 33.013, 34.011, or later.
For ControlLogix 5570 redundancy: Users should upgrade to versions 33.052, 34.051, or later.

Rockwell Automation encourages users to apply mitigations on their security best practices web page to reduce risk.
Users should see the Rockwell Automation security advisory for more information.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
