
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.4
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SINEMA Remote Connect Server
Vulnerability: Open Redirect

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to use a specially crafted link to steal login credentials.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of SINEMA Remote Server, a management platform for remote networks, are affected:

SINEMA Remote Connect Server: All versions prior to v2.0

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    OPEN REDIRECT CWE-601
SINEMA Remote Connect Server below v2.0 is affected by an open redirect vulnerability. An attacker could trick a valid authenticated user into clicking a malicious link, allowing the theft of login credentials.
CVE-2022-23102 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
SEC Consult Vulnerability Lab reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released software update for the SINEMA Remote Connect Server and recommends updating to the latest version:

Update to v2.0 or later version

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security, and following the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-654775
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
