
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.9
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Automation License Manager
Vulnerability: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could cause a denial-of-service condition, preventing legitimate users from accessing the system.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Automation License Manager are affected:

Automation License Manager 5: All versions
Automation License Manager 6: All versions prior to v6.0 SP9 Update 2

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    UNCONTROLLED RESOURCE CONSUMPTION CWE-400
Sending specially crafted packets to Port 4410/TCP of an affected system could lead to extensive memory consumption and a denial-of-service condition, preventing legitimate users from accessing the system.
CVE-2021-25659 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.9 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends users apply the following updates to mitigate this vulnerability:

Automation License Manager 6: Update to v6.0 SP9 Update 2 or later

Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce the risk:

On the Automation License Manager settings menu disable “Allow Remote Connections.”
If remote connections are needed, limit remote access to Port 4410/TCP to trusted systems only.

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends users configure the environment according to Siemens operational guidelines for industrial security and follow the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information about this issue, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-158827
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
