
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 7.0
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: FactoryTalk View ME
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a local low-privileged user to escalate their privileges by changing the macro to execute arbitrary code.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Rockwell Automation reports that the following versions of FactoryTalk Software are affected:

FactoryTalk View ME, when using default folder privileges: v14.0 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Improper Input Validation CWE-20
A remote code execution vulnerability exists in FactoryTalk View ME. The vulnerability allows users to save projects within the public directory allowing anyone with local access to modify and/or delete files. Additionally, a malicious user could potentially leverage this vulnerability to escalate their privileges by changing the macro to execute arbitrary code.
CVE-2024-37365 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated forCVE-2024-37365. A base score of 7.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:L/AC:L/AT:N/PR:L/UI:P/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation has corrected this problem in V15.0.
Rockwell Automation encourages users of the affected software who are not able to upgrade to one of the corrected versions to apply the following risk mitigations where possible.

To enhance security and help prevent unauthorized modifications to HMI project files, harden the Windows OS by removing the INTERACTIVE group from the folder's security properties.
Add specific users or user groups and assign their permissions to this folder using the least privileges principle. Users with read-only permission can still test run and run the FactoryTalk View ME Station.
Guidance can be found in FactoryTalk View ME v14 Help topic: "HMI projects folder settings". It can be opened through the FactoryTalk View ME Studio menu "help\Contents\FactoryTalk View ME Help\Create a Machine Edition application->Open applications->HMI project folder settings".
Security Best Practices

For more information, see Rockwell Automation's security advisory
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 12, 2024: Initial Publication

