
CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SIMATIC CP 44x-1 Redundant Network Access (RNA) modules
Vulnerability: Improper Authentication
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of the SIMATIC CP 44x-1 RNA, which connect SIMATIC S7-400 CPUs to Industrial Ethernet, are affected:

SIMATIC CP 44x-1 RNA, all versions prior to Versions 1.4.1.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow an unauthenticated remote attacker to perform administrative actions under certain conditions.
MITIGATION
Siemens has released firmware update, Version 1.4.1, for the SIMATIC CP 44x-1 RNA modules that fixes the vulnerability and is available at the following location:
https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/ww/en/view/109748227.
Siemens recommends that users apply the firmware update.
Siemens recommends that users apply the following mitigations until the firmware update can be applied:

Apply cell protection concept, described in the following:

https://www.siemens.com/cert/operational-guidelines-industrial-security

Use VPN for protecting network communication between cells
Apply Defense-in-Depth, which is described in the following:

https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287

An unauthenticated remote attacker may be able to perform administrative actions on the Communication Process (CP) of the RNA series module, if network access to Port 102/TCP is available and the configuration file for the CP is stored on the RNA’s CPU.
CVE-2017-6868 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Chemical, Critical Manufacturing, and Food and Agriculture
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Munich, Germany
