
OVERVIEW
OSIsoft has identified an input validation vulnerability in its own PI SQL Data Access Server. OSIsoft has produced a new version of PI SQL Data Access Server (OLE DB) 2016 (1.5) to address this issue.
This vulnerability could be exploited remotely.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Affected versions of PI SQL Data Access Server prior to the 2016 (1.5) release are included only with:

PI JDBC Driver 2015 (1.4.1.404)  and earlier, and
PI ODBC Driver 2015 (3.5.403) and earlier.

IMPACT
An attacker who successfully exploits this vulnerability could cause the PI SQL Data Access Server to stop responding in a way that may cause an incomplete update resulting in partial data loss.
Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization. NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of this vulnerability based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation. 
BACKGROUND
OSIsoft is a US-based company that maintains headquarters in San Leandro, California, with global operations.
According to OSIsoft, the PI SQL Data Access Server is a component that supports the PI SQL family of drivers such as PI ODBC and PI JDBC. While these drivers implement a certain industry standard or API and build the interface to third-party clients or applications, PI SQL Data Access Server is responsible for executing the queries. PI SQL Data Access Server supports connections and queries to the PI Data Archive and PI AF Server. PI SQL Data Access Server is a layered application that is not installed with every PI System implementation. PI Asset Framework is deployed across several critical infrastructure sectors. These products are used worldwide. 
VULNERABILITY CHARACTERIZATION
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATIONCWE-20: Improper Input Validation, http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/20.html, web site last accessed June 14, 2016.

A denial-of-service impact occurs when the PI SQL Data Access Server improperly handles input while processing a message from an authenticated connection.
CVE-2016-4530NVD, http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2016-4530, NIST uses this advisory to create the CVE web site report. This web site will be active sometime after publication of this advisory. has been assigned to this vulnerability. The issue was rated by OSIsoft using the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)CVSS Calculator, https://nvd.nist.gov/cvss.cfm?adv&calculator&version=2, web site last accessed June 14, 2016. as Medium (CVSS: 4.0-6.9)
VULNERABILITY DETAILS
EXPLOITABILITY
This vulnerability could be exploited remotely.
EXISTENCE OF EXPLOIT
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
DIFFICULTY
An attacker with a low skill would be able to exploit this vulnerability.
MITIGATION
OSIsoft recommends upgrading to PI SQL Data Access Server (OLE DB) 2016 (1.5) to address this issue.
OSIsoft recommends that users use a host-based firewall to limit access to Ports 5461 and 5462 only to trusted workstations and PI SQL client products such as:

PI JDBC Driver, and
PI ODBC Driver.

They also recommend that access to PI SQL Data Access Server be limited to only those users who need it through user rights assignment security policy.
For more information on this vulnerability, please refer to OSIsoft’s Security Bulletin on this topic that was released on its web site on May 10, 2016:
https://techsupport.osisoft.com/Troubleshooting/PI-System-Cyber-Security
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page at: http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/content/recommended-practices. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/).
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
