
​​As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global). 
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

​CVSS v3 7.8
​ATTENTION: Low attack complexity/public exploits available
​Vendor: Siemens
​Equipment: JT2Go, Teamcenter Visualization
​Vulnerabilities: Null Pointer Dereference, Out-of-bounds Read, Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buffer

2. RISK EVALUATION
​Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to disclose sensitive information, execute code in the context of the current process, or crash the application causing a denial-of-service condition.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
​The following products from Siemens are affected:


​JT2Go: All versions prior to v14.2.0.3


​Teamcenter Visualization V13.2: All versions prior to v13.2.0.13


​Teamcenter Visualization V13.3: All versions prior to v 13.3.0.10




​Teamcenter Visualization V14.0: All versions prior to v 14.0.0.6


​Teamcenter Visualization V14.1: All versions prior to v 14.1.0.8


​Teamcenter Visualization V14.2: All versions prior to v 14.2.0.3


3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 NULL POINTER DEREFERENCE CWE-476
​The affected applications contain a null pointer dereference vulnerability while parsing specially crafted CGM files. An attacker could leverage this vulnerability to crash the application causing a denial-of-service condition.
​CVE-2023-33121 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 3.3 has been calculated. The CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L).
3.2.2 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
​The affected applications contain an out of bounds read past the end of an allocated buffer while parsing a specially crafted CGM file. This vulnerability could allow an attacker to disclose sensitive information.
​CVE-2023-33122 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 3.3 has been calculated. The CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
3.2.3 ​OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
​The affected applications contain an out of bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted CGM files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
​CVE-2023-33123 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated. The CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.4 IMPROPER RESTRICTION OF OPERATIONS WITHIN THE BOUNDS OF A MEMORY BUFFER CWE-119
​The affected applications contain a memory corruption vulnerability while parsing specially crafted CGM files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
​CVE-2023-33124 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated. The CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

​CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors 
​COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide 
​COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany 

3.4 RESEARCHER
​Jin Huang from ADLab of Venustech reported these vulnerabilities to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
​Siemens recommends users to update the following software to the latest version:

​JT2Go: Update to V14.1.0.4 or later version
​Teamcenter Visualization V14.2: Update to V14.2.0.3 or later version
​Teamcenter Visualization V14.1: Update to V14.1.0.8 or later version
​Teamcenter Visualization V14.0: Update to V14.0.0.6 or later version
​Teamcenter Visualization V13.3: Update to V13.3.0.10 or later version
​Teamcenter Visualization V13.2: Update to V13.2.0.13 or later version

​Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk: 

​Do not open untrusted CGM files in JT2Go and Teamcenter Visualization

​As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends to configure the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security, and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals. Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity.
​For further inquiries on security vulnerabilities in Siemens products and solutions, please contact the Siemens ProductCERT.
​For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-538795 in HTML and CSAF.
​CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
​CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
​Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
​Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
​CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

​Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
​Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
​Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

​No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
