
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.1
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: Struxureware Data Center Expert
Vulnerabilities: OS Command Injection, Path Traversal

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow remote code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Struxureware Data Center Expert, a monitoring software, are affected:

Struxureware Data Center Expert Versions 7.8.1 and prior

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER NUETRALIZATION OF SPECIAL ELEMENTS USED IN AN OS COMMAND ('OS COMMAND INJECTION') CWE-78
The affected product is vulnerable to an OS command injection, which may allow an attacker to remotely execute code over the network.
CVE-2021-22795 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2    IMPROPER LIMITATION OF A PATHNAME TO A RESTRICTED DIRECTORY ('PATH TRAVERSAL') CWE-22
The affected product is vulnerable to directory traversal, which may allow an attacker to remotely execute code.
CVE-2021-22794 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Government Facilities, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
David Yesland, working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, reported these vulnerabilities to Schneider Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has established a remediation plan for future versions of StruxureWare Data Center Expert to fix these vulnerabilities. Until the fix is released, users should immediately follow the security hardening guidelines found in Schneider Electric’s Data Center Expert Security Handbook to reduce the risk of exploit.
Schneider Electric has released security advisory SEVD-2021-257-03 in response to these vulnerabilities.
Schneider Electric strongly recommends the following industry cybersecurity best practices:

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks.
Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in “Program” mode.
Limit software updates to only those networks where devices targeted by the software updates reside.
Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network (e.g., CDs, USB drives, etc.) before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Do not allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also, understand VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices.

For more information, refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document.
For more details and assistance on how to protect a user’s installation, contact the local Schneider Electric representative or Schneider Electric Industrial Cybersecurity Services.
For further information related to cybersecurity in Schneider Electric’s products, visit the company’s cybersecurity support portal page.
CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
