
CVSS v3 7.2
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: StruxureOn Gateway
Vulnerability: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports that the vulnerability affects the following versions of StruxureOn Gateway, a software management platform:

StruxureOn Gateway, all versions prior to 1.2

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a remote attacker to upload a malicious file to any directory on the device, which could lead to remote code execution.
MITIGATION
Schneider Electric has released a new version of the software located at:
https://struxureon.com/download-and-set-up-struxureon-gateway/
For more information on these vulnerabilities and associated patch, please see Schneider Electric’s security notification SEVD-2018-039-01 on their website:
https://www.schneider-electric.com/en/download/document/SEVD-2018-039-01/
Schneider Electric reports that, in addition to upgrading to version 1.2, users should ensure they change the default passwords as this vulnerability requires authenticated access.
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the NCCIC Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT website.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

UNRESTRICTED UPLOAD OF FILE WITH DANGEROUS TYPE CWE-434

Uploading a zip file with modified metadata may allow remote code execution.
CVE-2017-9970 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Schneider Electric reported this vulnerability to NCCIC.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: France
