
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Mitsubishi Electric
Equipment: MI5122-VW
Vulnerability: Incorrect Default Permissions

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to tamper with, destroy, disclose, or delete information in the product, or cause a denial-of-service (DoS) condition on the product.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Mitsubishi Electric MELIPC Series MI5122-VW, an industrial PC, are affected:

MI5122-VW: Firmware versions "05" up to and including "07"

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 INCORRECT DEFAULT PERMISSIONS CWE-276
In Mitsubishi Electric MELIPC Series MI5122-VW firmware versions "05" up to and including "07", a local attacker may execute arbitrary code by saving a malicious file to a specific folder. As a result, the attacker may disclose, tamper with, destroy or delete information in the product, or cause a denial-of-service (DoS) condition on the product.
CVE-2024-3904 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 8.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Japan

3.4 RESEARCHER
Mitsubishi Electric reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Mitsubishi Electric has fixed the vulnerability in the following products:
MI5122-VW: firmware versions "08" or later
Customers using the affected product should take workarounds and mitigations in Mitsubishi Electric advisory 2024-003, because updating the product to the fixed version is not available.
Please refer to Mitsubishi Electric's user manual for how to check the firmware version.
MELIPC MI5000 Series User's Manual (Startup) "Appendix 17 Checking Production Information and Firmware Version"
The manuals for Mitsubishi products are available for download from Mitsubishi Electric's website.
For more information, contact Mitsubishi Electric.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

July 09, 2024: Initial Publication

