
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.4
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely
Vendor: Siemens

--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 3 ---------

Equipment: Climatix POL909 (AWM and AWB modules)

--------- End Update A Part 1 of 3 ---------

Vulnerability: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow sensitive data disclosure or modification of data in transit.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Climatix POL909 (AWM module), an advanced web module, are affected:

Climatix POL909 (AWM module): All versions prior to v11.34

--------- Begin Update A Part 2 of 3 ---------

Climatix POL909 (AWB module): All versions prior to v11.34

--------- End Update A Part 2 of 3 ---------
3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    MISSING ENCRYPTION OF SENSITIVE DATA CWE-311
The web server of affected devices transmits data without TLS encryption. This could allow an unauthenticated remote attacker in a man-in-the-middle position to read sensitive data, such as administrator credentials, or modify data in transit.
CVE-2021-40366 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.4 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:L/A:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Chizuru Toyama of TXOne IoT/ICS Security Research Labs and Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
--------- Begin Update A Part 3 of 3 ---------
Siemens recommends users update the following software to the latest version:

Climatix POL909 (AWB module): Update to v11.34 or later version.
Climatix POL909 (AWM module): Update to v11.34 or later version.

For specific update information, please refer to Siemens Security Advisory SSA-252466
--------- End Update A Part 3 of 3 ---------
Siemens has not identified any additional specific workarounds or mitigations.
As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security, and follow the recommendations in the product manuals. 
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For additional information, please refer to Siemens Security Advisory SSA-703715
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
