
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 7.0
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Factory Talk Remote Access
Vulnerability: Unquoted Search Path or Element

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to enter a malicious executable and run it as a system user, resulting in remote code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Rockwell Automation's FactoryTalk Remote Access are affected:

FactoryTalk Remote Access: v13.5.0.174 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 UNQUOTED SEARCH PATH OR ELEMENT CWE-428
An unquoted executable path exists in the affected products, possibly resulting in remote code execution if exploited. While running the FTRA installer package, the executable path is not properly quoted, which could allow a threat actor to enter a malicious executable and run it as a system user. A threat actor needs admin privileges to exploit this vulnerability.
CVE-2024-3640 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 6.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:H/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-3640. A base score of 7.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:L/AC:L/AT:N/PR:H/UI:A/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Chemical, Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Government Facilities, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation recommends user to upgrade to v13.6.
For additional information, refer to Rockwell Automation's security bulletin.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

May 14, 2024: Initial Publication

