
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: JT2Go & Teamcenter Visualization
Vulnerabilities: Use After Free, Out-of-bounds Write, Out-of-bounds Read, NULL Pointer Dereference

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to crash an application or execute arbitrary code.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Siemens products are affected:

JT2Go: All versions prior to v13.2.0.1
Teamcenter Visualization: All versions prior to v13.2.0.1

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    USE AFTER FREE CWE-416
A use-after-free issue exists in the DGN file-reading procedure in the Open Design Alliance Drawings SDK, all versions prior to 2022.4, resulting from the lack of proper validation of user-supplied data. This can result in a memory corruption or arbitrary code execution, allowing attackers to cause a denial-of-service condition or execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2021-32944 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2    OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
An out-of-bounds write issue exists in the DXF file-recovering procedure in the Open Design Alliance Drawings SDK, all versions prior to 2022.4, resulting from the lack of proper validation of user-supplied data. This can result in a write past the end of an allocated buffer and allow attackers to cause a denial-of-service condition or execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2021-32936 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.3    OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
An out-of-bounds write issue exists in the DWG file-recovering procedure in the Open Design Alliance Drawings SDK, all versions prior to 2022.4, resulting from the lack of proper validation of user-supplied data. This can result in a write past the end of an allocated buffer and allow attackers to cause a denial-of-service condition or execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2021-32948 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.4    OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
Open Design Alliance Drawings SDK, all versions prior to 2022.4, are vulnerable to an out-of-bounds read due to parsing of DWG files resulting from the lack of proper validation of user-supplied data. This can result in a read past the end of an allocated buffer and allows attackers to cause a denial-of-service condition or read sensitive information from memory.
CVE-2021-32938 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:H).
3.2.5    OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
An out-of-bounds read issue exists in the DWG file-recovering procedure in the Open Design Alliance Drawings SDK, all versions prior to 2022.4, resulting from the lack of proper validation of user-supplied data. This can result in a read past the end of an allocated buffer and allow attackers to cause a denial-of-service condition or read sensitive information from memory.
CVE-2021-32940 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:H).
3.2.6    OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
An out-of-bounds read issue exists in the DXF files in the Open Design Alliance Drawings SDK, all versions prior to 2022.4, resulting from the lack of proper validation of user-supplied data. This can result in a read past the end of an allocated buffer and allow attackers to cause a denial-of-service condition or read sensitive information from memory.
CVE-2021-32950 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:H).
3.2.7    NULL POINTER DEREFERENCE CWE-476
When parsing specially crafted CGM files, a NULL pointer dereference condition could cause the application to crash. The application must be restarted to restore the service. An attacker could leverage this vulnerability to cause a denial-of-service condition in the application.
CVE-2021-33717 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Mat Powell and Brian Gorenc of Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, Kai Wang from Codesafe Team of Legendsec at Qi’anxin Group, and Open Design Alliance reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released updates for the following products:

JT2Go: Update to v13.2.0.1 or later
Teamcenter Visualization: Update to v13.2.0.1 or later (login required)

Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Avoid opening untrusted files from unknown sources in JT2Go and Teamcenter Visualization

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends users configure the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security and follow the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information about this issue, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-365397
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
