
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.1
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Johnson Controls, Inc.
Equipment: Illustra Essentials Gen 4
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to inject commands.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Johnson Controls reports that the following versions of Illustra Essentials Gen 4 IP camera are affected:

Illustra Essentials Gen 4: all versions up to Illustra.Ess4.01.02.10.5982

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Improper Input Validation CWE-20
Under certain circumstances the web interface will accept characters unrelated to the expected input.
CVE-2024-32755 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 9.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing, Commercial Facilities, Government Facilities, Transportation Systems, Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Ireland

3.4 RESEARCHER
Sam Hanson of Dragos reported this vulnerability to Johnson Controls, Inc.
4. MITIGATIONS
Johnson Controls recommends that users upgrade cameras to Illustra.Ess4.01.02.13.6953. For more detailed mitigation instructions, please see Johnson Controls Product Security Advisory JCI-PSA-2024-09 v1
Johnson Controls recommends taking steps to minimize risks to all building automation systems. Further ICS security notices and product security guidance are located at the Johnson Controls product security website
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

June 27, 2024: Initial Publication
July 2, 2024: Update A - Change in mitigation schedule

