
CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Geutebrück
Equipment: IP Cameras
Vulnerabilities: Authentication Bypass and Improper Neutralization of Special Elements
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Geutebrück G-Cam IP camera version is affected:

G-Cam/EFD-2250 Version 1.11.0.12

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow the attacker to bypass authentication and obtain remote anonymous access to the device; these vulnerabilities may allow remote code execution.
MITIGATION
Geutebrück recommends customers download and update with the newest patch from this location by registering for a new web club account or logging into an existing account.
http://www.geutebrueck.com/en_EN/login.html
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

AUTHENTICATION BYPASS USING AN ALTERNATE PATH OR CHANNEL CWE-288

An authentication bypass vulnerability has been identified. The existing file system architecture could allow attackers to bypass the access control that may allow remote code execution.
CVE-2017-5174 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF SPECIAL ELEMENTS USED IN AN OS COMMAND CWE-78

An improper neutralization of special elements vulnerability has been identified. If special elements are not properly neutralized, an attacker can call multiple parameters that can allow access to the root level operating system which could allow remote code execution.
CVE-2017-5173 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Florent Montel and Frédéric Cikala discovered the authentication bypass vulnerability, and Davy Douhine of RandoriSec discovered the improper access control vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Commercial Facilities, Energy, Healthcare and Public Health
Countries/Areas Deployed: Europe, United States, Australia
Company Headquarters Location: Windhagen, Germany
