
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 8.6
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: Data Center Expert
Vulnerability: Improper Verification of Cryptographic Signature, Missing Authentication for Critical Function

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to access private data.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports that the following versions of Data Center Expert, a monitoring software, are affected:

Data Center Expert: Versions 8.1.1.3 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Improper Verification of Cryptographic Signature CWE-347
An improper verification of cryptographic signature vulnerability exists that could compromise the Data Center Expert software when an upgrade bundle is manipulated to include arbitrary bash scripts that are executed as root.
CVE-2024-8531 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-8531. A base score of 8.6 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:H/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.2.2 Missing Authentication for Critical Function CWE-306
A missing authentication for critical function vulnerability exists in Data Center Expert software that could cause exposure of private data when an already generated "logcaptures" archive is accessed directly by HTTPS.
CVE-2024-8530 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 5.9 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-8530. A base score of 8.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:H/AT:N/PR:N/UI:N/VC:H/VI:N/VA:N/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Government Facilities, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Anonymous working with Trend Micro Zero Day Initiative reported these vulnerabilities to Schneider Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Version 8.2 of EcoStruxure IT Data Center Expert includes fixes for these vulnerabilities and is available upon request from Schneider Electric's Customer Care Center.
Users should use appropriate patching methodologies when applying these patches to their systems. Schneider Electric strongly recommends the use of back-ups and evaluating the impact of these patches in a test and development environment or on an offline infrastructure. ContactSchneider Electric's Customer Care Center if you need assistance removing a patch.
If users choose not to apply the remediation provided above, they should immediately apply the following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit:

Ensure that the principals of least privilege are being followed so that only those with need have account access and that the level of their respective account authorization aligns with their role, including privileged accounts as described in the Data Center Expert Security Handbook.
Verify SHA1 checksums of upgrade bundles prior to executing upgrades as described in the Upgrades section of the Data Center Expert Security Handbook.
Delete any existing "logcapture" archives present on the system and do not create any new "logcapture" archives. Existing archives can be deleted from the https://server_ip/capturelogs web page after authenticating.

Schneider Electric strongly recommends the following industry cybersecurity best practices:

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access your industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks.
Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in the "Program" mode.
Never connect programming software to any network other than the network intended for that device.
Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc. before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Never allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs). Recognize that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also, understand that VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices.

For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document.
For more information see the associated Schneider Electric security notification SEVD-2024-282-01 in PDF and CSAF
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

October 15, 2024: Initial Publication

