
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low Attack Complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: Vijeo Designer
Vulnerability: Improper Privilege Management

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could cause a non-admin authenticated user to perform privilege escalation by tampering with the binaries.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports that the following products are affected:

Schneider Electric Vijeo Designer: All versions prior to 6.3 SP1

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 IMPROPER PRIVILEGE MANAGEMENT CWE-269
Improper Privilege Management vulnerabilities exist that could cause unauthorized access, loss of confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the workstation if non-admin authenticated users try to perform privilege escalation by tampering with the binaries.
CVE-2024-8306 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Schneider Electric CPCERT reported this vulnerability to CISA.
CVE-2024-8306:Charit Misra of Applied Risk(DNV Cyber) reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Schneider Electric Vijeo Designer Versions prior to V6.3 SP1: 

Limit authenticated user access to the workstation running Vijeo Designer and implement existing User Account Control practices. 
Remove the write permissions for "Everyone" on the folder "C:\Program Files (x86)\Schneider Electric\Vijeo-Designer 6.3\Vijeo-Runtime" 
Follow workstation, network and site-hardening guidelines in the Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices guide available for download here.


Schneider Electric Vijeo Designer embedded in EcoStruxure™ Machine Expert All versions: 

Schneider Electric is establishing a remediation plan for all future versions of Vijeo Designer embedded in EcoStruxure™ Machine Expert that will include a fix for this vulnerability. We will update this document when the remediation is available. Until then, users should immediately apply the following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit: 

Limit authenticated user access to the workstation running Vijeo Designer and implement existing User Account Control practices. 
Remove the write permissions for "Everyone" on the folder "C:\Program Files (x86)\Schneider Electric\Vijeo-Designer 6.3\Vijeo-Runtime" 
Follow workstation, network and site-hardening guidelines in the Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices guide available for download here.




Schneider Electric Vijeo Designer Versions prior to V6.3 SP1: 

Version V6.3 SP1 of Vijeo Designer includes a fix for this vulnerability and can be updated through the Schneider Electric Software Update (SESU) application. https://www.se.com/ww/en/product-range/1054-vijeo%02designer-hmi-software/#software-and-firmware On the engineering workstation, update to v6.3 SP1 of Vijeo Designer.



CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

January 14, 2025: Initial Publication

