
OVERVIEW
Researcher Jürgen Bilberger from Daimler TSS GmbH has identified a code injection vulnerability in Network Vision’s IntraVue software. Network Vision has produced a new version that mitigates this vulnerability.
This vulnerability could be exploited remotely.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following IntraVue software versions are affected:

IntraVue, all Windows versions prior to Version 2.3.0a14.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an unauthenticated user to execute arbitrary operating system commands that could impact the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of an affected server.
Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization. NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of this vulnerability based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation.
BACKGROUND
Network Vision is a US-based company headquartered in Newburyport, Massachusetts.
The affected product, IntraVue, is a software package for network visualization. According to Network Vision, IntraVue is deployed across several sectors including Critical Manufacturing, Transportation Systems, and Water and Wastewater Systems. Network Vision estimates that these products are used globally with a significant portion in North America and Europe.
VULNERABILITY CHARACTERIZATION
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

OS COMMAND INJECTIONCWE-78: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection'), http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/78.html, web site last accessed February 26, 2015.

The vulnerability can be exploited by unauthenticated users to execute arbitrary operating system commands on an affected server system.
CVE-2015-0977NVD, http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2015-0977, NIST uses this advisory to create the CVE web site report. This web site will be active sometime after publication of this advisory. has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v2 base score of 10.0 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/Au:N/C:C/I:C/A:C).CVSS Calculator, http://nvd.nist.gov/cvss.cfm?version=2&vector=AV:N/AC:L/Au:N/C:C/I:C/A:C, web site last accessed February 26, 2015.
VULNERABILITY DETAILS
EXPLOITABILITY
This vulnerability could be exploited remotely.
EXISTENCE OF EXPLOIT
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
DIFFICULTY
An attacker with a low skill would be able to exploit this vulnerability.
MITIGATION
Network Vision has released a new version of the IntraVues software that mitigates the code injection vulnerability. It is recommended that the new version be applied as soon as possible. Users who have software support contracts with Network Vision can upgrade to the newest version at no cost. For more information, please contact Network Vision:
Toll Free (US): (877) 499-8100
Phone: (978) 499-7800
Email: help@intravue.net
Additional mitigations could be implemented as interim prevention measures until the new version is applied. The following mitigations could be used to help limit the impact of the code injection vulnerability; however, the following suggestions may not be appropriate for all environments. ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

Isolate the vulnerable system from the Internet and untrusted systems; however, if connectivity is required, use a VPN solution and implement network monitoring.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that a VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.
Implement a runtime policy to prevent the use of any command that does not appear in a whitelist of allowable commands.
Utilize good design practices that include network segmentation; use of DMZs with properly configured firewalls to selectively control traffic; and monitor traffic passed between zones and systems.
If possible, create isolated accounts using lowest privileges to accomplish minimum required tasks.

ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page at: http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/content/recommended-practices. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/).
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
