
CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Phoenix Broadband Technologies LLC
Equipment: PowerAgent SC3 Site Controller
Vulnerability: Use of Hard-Coded Password
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Phoenix Broadband Technologies LLC reports that the following versions of PowerAgent SC3, a remote battery monitoring system (BMS), are affected:

PowerAgent SC3 BMS, all versions prior to v6.87

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow unauthorized access to the battery monitoring system.
MITIGATION
Phoenix Broadband Technologies LLC has issued updated firmware v6.87 to address this vulnerability. Users can obtain the new firmware by contacting Phoenix Broadband Technologies LLC.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

USE OF HARD-CODED PASSWORD CWE-259

Use of a hard-coded password may allow unauthorized access to the device.
CVE-2017-6039 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Iñaki Rodríguez discovered this vulnerability and tested the patch.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Communications, Energy, Government Facilities, Information Technology, Transportation Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Hatfield, Pennsylvania, USA
