
CVSS v3 7.5
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/high skill level is needed to exploit.
Vendor: Hirschmann Automation and Control GmbH, a division of Belden Inc.
Equipment: Classic Platform Switches
Vulnerabilities: Session Fixation, Information Exposure Through Query Strings in GET Request, Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information, Inadequate Encryption Strength, Improper Restriction of Excessive Authentication Attempts
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Hirschmann reports that the vulnerabilities affect the following Classic Platform Switches products:

RS all versions,
RSR all versions,
RSB all versions,
MACH100 all versions,
MACH1000 all versions,
MACH4000 all versions,
MS all versions, and
OCTOPUS all versions.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow the attacker to hijack web sessions, impersonate a legitimate user, receive sensitive information, and gain access to the device.
MITIGATION
Hirschmann strongly recommends users restrict access to remote management access and the following mitigation strategies should be applied:

Disable HTTP for remote management access.
Use the secure HTTPS or SSH protocols for remote management access.
Use of complex user passwords.
Use the “Restricted Management Access” feature to restrict access to known IP addresses.
Disable remote management access when not in use.

NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the NCCIC Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, NCCIC recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

SESSION FIXATION CWE-384

A session fixation vulnerability in the web interface has been identified, which may allow an attacker to hijack web sessions.
CVE-2018-5465 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

INFORMATION EXPOSURE THROUGH QUERY STRINGS IN GET REQUEST CWE-598

An information exposure through query strings vulnerability in the web interface has been identified, which may allow an attacker to impersonate a legitimate user.
CVE-2018-5467 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).

CLEARTEXT TRANSMISSION OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION CWE-319

A cleartext transmission of sensitive information vulnerability in the web interface has been identified, which may allow an attacker to obtain sensitive information through a successful man-in-the-middle attack.
CVE-2018-5471 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).

INADEQUATE ENCRYPTION STRENGTH CWE-326

An inadequate encryption strength vulnerability in the web interface has been identified, which may allow an attacker to obtain sensitive information through a successful man-in-the-middle attack.
CVE-2018-5461 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:L/A:N).

IMPROPER RESTRICTION OF EXCESSIVE AUTHENTICATION ATTEMPTS CWE-307

An improper restriction of excessive authentication vulnerability in the web interface has been identified, which may allow an attacker to brute force authentication.
CVE-2018-5469 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Ilya Karpov, Evgeniy Druzhinin, Mikhail Tsvetkov, and Damir Zainullin of Positive Technologies reported these vulnerabilities to Belden.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Multiple sectors
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: St. Louis, Missouri
