
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global). 
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3: 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: JT2Go, Teamcenter Visualization
Vulnerabilities: Out-of-bounds Read, NULL Pointer Dereference, Stack-based Buffer Overflow

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the software's current process or crash the application causing a denial of service.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Siemens products are affected:

JT2Go: All versions prior to V14.3.0.6
Teamcenter Visualization V13.3: All versions prior to V13.3.0.13
Teamcenter Visualization V14.1: All versions prior to V14.1.0.12
Teamcenter Visualization V14.2: All versions prior to V14.2.0.9
Teamcenter Visualization V14.3: All versions prior to V14.3.0.6

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The affected applications contain an out-of-bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted CGM files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-51439 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2 NULL POINTER DEREFERENCE CWE-476
The affected applications contain a null pointer dereference vulnerability while parsing specially crafted CGM files. An attacker could leverage this vulnerability to crash the application causing denial of service condition.
CVE-2023-51744 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 3.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L).
3.2.3 STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121
The affected applications contain a stack overflow vulnerability while parsing specially crafted CGM files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-51745 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H/E:P/RL:O/RC:C).
3.2.4 STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121
The affected applications contain a stack overflow vulnerability while parsing specially crafted CGM files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2023-51746 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends users update software to mitigate risk from these vulnerabilities.

JT2Go: Update to V14.3.0.6 or later version
Teamcenter Visualization V13.3: Update to V13.3.0.13 or later version
Teamcenter Visualization V14.1: Update to V14.1.0.12 or later version
Teamcenter Visualization V14.2: Update to V14.2.0.9 or later version
Teamcenter Visualization V14.3: Update to V14.3.0.6 or later version

Siemens also recommends that users avoid opening untrusted CGM files in JT2Go and Teamcenter Visualization.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

January 11, 2024: Initial Publication Date

