
Overview
This Updated Advisory is a follow-up to the original Advisory titled “ICSA-12-088-01 – Rockwell Automation FactoryTalk RNADiagReceiver DOS Vulnerabilities” that was published March 28, 2012 on the ICS-CERT web page.
This advisory is a follow-up to ICS-CERT Alert “ICS-ALERT-12-017-01—ROCKWELL AUTOMATION FACTORYTALK RNADIAGRECEIVER” that was published January 17, 2012, on the ICS-CERT web page.
Independent researcher Luigi Auriemma identified two vulnerabilities that may result in a denial-of-service (DoS) condition in the Rockwell Automation FactoryTalk (FT) application. These vulnerabilities were reported, along with proof-of-concept code, without coordination with ICS-CERT, the vendor, or other coordinating entity. The two vulnerabilities include an unexpected return value and a read access violation.
ICS-CERT has coordinated these vulnerabilities with Rockwell Automation who developed a patch that resolves these vulnerabilities.
Affected Products
According to Rockwell Automation's Security Taskforce, the following Allen-Bradley products are affected by these vulnerabilities:

RSLogix 5000 (versions 17, 18, 19, 20)
Factory Talk (CPR9 up to and including CPR9 SR5)

FT Directory
FT Alarms & Events
FT View SE
FT Diagnostics
FT Live Data
FT Server Health.



Impact
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may result in a DoS condition.
Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization. ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of these vulnerabilities based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation.
Background
Rockwell Automation provides industrial automation control and information products worldwide, across a wide range of industries.
The FactoryTalk Services Platform is a collection of production and performance management systems.
Vulnerability Characterization
Vulnerability Overview
Unexpected Return ValueCWE, has been assigned to this vulnerability. http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/389.html, CWE-389: Error Conditions, Return Values, Status Codes. This website last accessed March 27, 2012.
--------- Begin Update A Part 1 of 2 --------
An unexpected return value can be generated by a specially crafted packet that can cause the Rockwell Automation FactoryTalk RNADiagReceiver service listening on Port 4445/UDP to stop processing packets. This vulnerability may lead to a DoS condition.
CVE-2012-0221 has been assigned to this vulnerability.
--------- End Update A Part 1 of 2 ----------
Read Access ViolationCWE, http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/125.html, CWE-125: Out-of-bounds Read. This website last accessed March 27, 2012.
--------- Begin Update A Part 2 of 2 --------
A read access violation vulnerability exists in Rockwell Automation’s FactoryTalk platform. A specially crafted packet can be sent to the RNADiagReceiver service listening on Port 4445/UDP resulting in a possible DoS condition.
CVE-2012-0222 has been assigned to this vulnerability.
--------- End Update A Part 2 of 2 ----------
Vulnerability Details
Exploitability
These vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable.
Existence of Exploit
Public exploits are known that target these vulnerabilities.
Difficulty
An attacker with a low skill level may be able to exploit these vulnerabilities.
Mitigation
Rockwell has developed a security update to address these vulnerabilities. To download and install the update please refer to Rockwell’s Advisory.
For more information on security with Rockwell Automation products, please refer to Rockwell’s Security Advisory Index.
In addition to applying the above patch, Rockwell Automation recommends customers configure firewalls to block the following TCP ports to prevent traversal of RNA messages into and out of the ICS system:

1330
1331
1332
4241
4242
4445
4446
6543
9111
60093
49281.

ICS-CERT encourages asset owners to take additional defensive measures to protect against this and other cybersecurity risks.

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Critical devices should not directly face the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP) also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the CSSP web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents. ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in e-mail messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding e-mail scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.


