
CVSS v3 7.5
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Eaton
Equipment: xComfort Ethernet Communication Interface
Vulnerability: Improper Access Control
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of xComfort Ethernet Communication Interface (ECI), a building automation system, are affected:

xComfort ECI Versions 1.07 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow a remote attacker to access backup files and system logs without authenticating.
MITIGATION
Eaton recommends that affected users upgrade to the latest version of the software which is downloadable from the Software Downloads tab under the Documentation tab at the following link:
http://www.eaton.eu/Europe/Electrical/ProductsServices/Residential/xComfort-RFSmartHomeSolutions/index.htm?wtredirect=www.eaton.eu/xcomfort#tabs-11
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. 
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER ACCESS CONTROL CWE-284

By accessing a specific uniform resource locator (URL) on the webserver, a malicious user may be able to access files without authenticating.
CVE-2016-9368 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Maxim Rupp identified the vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Commercial Facilities
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Dublin, Ireland
