
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Sensormatic Electronics, LLC, a subsidiary of Johnson Controls
Equipment: VideoEdge
Vulnerability: Off-by-one Error

2. RISK EVALUATION
Under specific circumstances, a local authenticated user may be able to exploit this vulnerability to gain administrative access.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Johnson Controls reports the vulnerability affects the following Sensormatic Electronics products:

VideoEdge versions prior to 5.7.0

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    OFF-BY-ONE ERROR CWE-193
VideoEdge calculates or uses an incorrect maximum or minimum value that is one more, or one less, than the correct value.
CVE-2021-3156 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Ireland

3.4 RESEARCHER
Johnson Controls reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Johnson Controls recommends users upgrade to the latest VideoEdge release (currently 5.7.0). If this is not possible, a sudo patch is available from the American Dynamics website for VideoEdge 5.4.2 and 5.6.0. VideoEdge 5.4.1 and older cannot be patched and should be upgraded.
American Dynamics is a Johnson Controls brand. Users may contact American Dynamics technical support for assistance with updating their operating system. https://www.americandynamics.net/Support
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Practice principles of least privilege.
Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
