
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global). 
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 5.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SINEMA Remote Connect Server
Vulnerability: Session Fixation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a remote attacker to circumvent the additional multi-factor authentication for user session establishment.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports that the following versions of SINEMA Remote Connect Server, a remote network management platform, are affected:

SINEMA Remote Connect Server: versions prior to V3.2 SP2

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 SESSION FIXATION CWE-384
The affected application does not properly handle user session establishment and invalidation. This could allow a remote attacker to circumvent the additional multi-factor authentication for user session establishment.
CVE-2024-42345 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:L/A:N).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-42345. A base score of 8.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:L/UI:N/VC:N/VI:L/VA:N/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing, Commercial Facilities, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Healthcare and Public Health, Transportation Systems, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released a new version for SINEMA Remote Connect Client and recommends to update to V3.2 SP2 or later version.
As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-869574 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

September 12, 2024: Initial Publication

