
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 7.0
ATTENTION: Low Attack Complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: EcoStruxure Power Automation System User Interface (EPAS-UI)
Vulnerability: Improper Authentication

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to bypass device authentication, potentially gain access to sensitive information, or execute arbitrary code.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports that the following products are affected:

EcoStruxure Power Automation System User Interface (EPAS-UI): Version v2.1 up to and including v2.9

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287
The Schneider Electric EcoStruxure Power Automation System User Interface (EPAS-UI) is vulnerable to authentication bypass. This occurs when an unauthorized user, without permission rights, has physical access to the EPAS-UI computer and is able to reboot the workstation and interrupt the normal boot process.
CVE-2025-0813 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:P/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2025-0813. A base score of 7.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:P/AC:L/AT:N/PR:N/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Marc Cuny and David Url of GAI NetConsult GmbH reported this vulnerability to Schneider Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has identified the following specific remediations and workarounds users can apply to reduce risk:

Version 2.10 of Estrutura Power Automation System User Interface(EPAS-UI) includes a fix for this vulnerability and is available by contacting Schneider Electric's Customer Care Center.
If users choose not to apply the remediation provided above, they should immediately apply the following mitigations to reduce the risk of exploit: Please strictly follow all the instructions below: Step 1: Login with Admin privileges Step 2: Go to the folder C:\MCIS\Bin Step 3: Rename the file ‘MCIS.chm' to ‘MCIS.old' Note: to see file extensions, activate the visualization of file name extensions in Windows Explorer ‘View' options. Step 4: Restart the machine.

For more information see the associated Schneider Electric CPCERT security advisory EPAS-UI & EcoSUI - SEVD-2025-070-02 PDF Version, EPAS-UI & EcoSUI - SEVD-2025-070-02 CSAF Version.
Schneider Electric strongly recommends the following industry cybersecurity best practices:

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access your industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks.
Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in the "Program" mode.
Never connect programming software to any network other than the network intended for that device.
Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc. before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Never allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs). Recognize that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also, understand that VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices.
For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document.

CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

March 18, 2025: Initial Publication

