
Overview
This ICS-CERT Advisory is a follow-up to ICS-ALERT-11-080-01. An independent researcher has identified six vulnerabilities in the Siemens Tecnomatix FactoryLink supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) product. The researcher has also publicly released exploit code. The researcher identified the following vulnerabilities types:

Buffer overflow (2 vul)
Absolute Path Traversal (3 vul)
NULL Pointer Dereference (1 vul).

Siemens has released a patch addressing the identified vulnerablities. ICS-CERT has not yet validated this patch.
--------- Begin Update A – Part 1 of 1 --------
ICS-CERT has confirmed that the patch developed by Siemens fully addresses the reported vulnerabilities.
--------- End Update A – Part 1 of 1 --------
Affected Products
These vulnerabilities affect all versions of Siemens Tecnomatix FactoryLink prior to and including Version 8.0.1.1473.
Impact
Successful exploitation of the reported vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to perform multiple malicious activities including denial of service, directory traversal, and arbitrary code execution. The Vulnerability Classification section details the impacts for each of these vulnerabilities.
Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors unique to each organization. ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of these vulnerabilities based on the environment, architecture, and operational product implementation.
Background
Siemens Tecnomatix FactoryLink software is used for monitoring, supervising, and controlling industrial processes. FactoryLink is used to build applications such as human-machine interface (HMI) systems.
FactoryLink is implemented across a variety of industrial processes including oil and gas, chemicals, food and beverage, building automation.
Siemens has announced that FactoryLink is now considered a mature product and will not offer FactoryLink after October 2012.Important Information for Siemens FactoryLink Customers. (July 2007). Retrieved March 28, 2011, from FactoryLink Supervisory control and Data Acquisition: Siemens PLM Software: http://www.plm.automation.siemens.com/en_us/products/tecnomatix/production_management/factorylink/index.shtml
Vulnerability Characterization
Buffer Overflow Vulnerability Overview
Siemens Tecnomatix FactoryLink has two stack-based buffer overflow vulnerabilities.
The first vulnerability occurs in the CSService (7580/TCP). When the logging function of this service receives more than 1,024 bytes via the “vsprintf” function, the buffer size is exceeded. This vulnerability is remotely exploitable and results in denial of service.
The second vulnerability occurs in the vrn.exe server (7579/TCP). The vulnerability occurs when a parsing function used by vrn.exe is supplied a specially crafted input. This vulnerability is remotely exploitable and results in denial of service.
Buffer Overflow Vulnerability Details
Exploitability
These exploits are remotely exploitable.
Existence of Exploit
Exploit code is publicly available for each of the vulnerabilities.
Difficulty
An attacker with moderate skill level could exploit this vulnerability.
Absolute Traversal Vulnerability Overview
Siemens Tecnomatix FactoryLink is vulnerable to absolute path traversal vulnerabilities. Exploitation of these vulnerabilities allows an attacker to traverse the file system and access files or directories that are outside of the restricted directory.
These vulnerabilities occur in the CSService service (7580/TCP) and the vrn.exe server (7579/TCP). An attacker can supply an absolute path to traverse directories and download files.
Exploitability
These exploits are remotely exploitable.
Existence of Exploit
Exploit code is publicly available for each of the vulnerabilities.
Difficulty
An attacker with moderate skill level could exploit this vulnerability.
Null Pointer Dereference Vulnerability Overview
Siemens Tecnomatix FactoryLink is vulnerable to one null pointer dereference vulnerability in three windows services: CSService 7580/TCP, connsrv, and datasrv. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could result in a denial of service.
Null Pointer Dereference Vulnerability Details
Exploitability
An attacker must have access to the network to exploit this vulnerability.
Existence of Exploit
Exploit code is publicly available for each of the vulnerabilities.
Difficulty
An attacker with moderate skill level could exploit this vulnerability.
Mitigation
ICS-CERT recommends that users of Siemens Tecnomatix FactoryLink software take the following mitigation steps:

Upgrade to the latest version and install the latest patch.

Siemens has released a patch to their customers to address these vulnerabilities. Customers of vulnerable versions of Siemens Tecnomatix FactoryLink should deploy the Siemens patch available at: http://www.usdata.com/sea/factorylink/en/p_nav5.asp.
Refer to Siemens advisory regarding these vulnerabilities at: https://support.automation.siemens.com/dnl/DM/DMyNDQ4NQAA_43876783_Akt/Siemens_Security_Advisory_SSA-630126.pdf.
Proper configuration of the system according to the readme files included with the patches can also mitigate some of these vulnerabilities.

Review and check adherence to the recommended security precautions recommended by Siemens.

The recommended security precautions are available at: http://support.automation.siemens.com/WW/view/en/28580051.
Organizations should minimize network exposure for all control systems devices. Critical devices should not directly face the Internet. Relocate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network. If remote access is required, employ secure methods such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs).
Organizations that observe any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents. ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to taking defensive measures.
The Control System Security Program also provides a recommended practices section for control systems on the US-CERT website. Several recommended practices are available for reading or download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
