
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.1
ATTENTION: Exploitable from adjacent network
Vendor: Axis Communications
Equipment: AXIS A1001
Vulnerability: Heap-based Buffer Overflow

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of AXIS A1001, a network door controller, are affected:

AXIS A1001: 1.65.4 and prior

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 HEAP-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-122
A heap-based buffer overflow vulnerability exists in the AXIS 1001 versions 1.65.4 and prior. When communicating over the Open Supervised Device Protocol (OSDP), the pacsiod process that handles the OSDP communication allows for writing outside of the allocated buffer. By appending invalid data to an OSDP message, it is possible to write data beyond the heap allocated buffer. The data written outside the buffer could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code.
CVE-2023-21406 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Commercial Facilities
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Sweden

3.4 RESEARCHER
Ariel Harush and Roy Hodir of OTORIO reported this vulnerability to AXIS Communications.
4. MITIGATIONS
Axis has released a patched version for affected devices that fixes the vulnerability.
Axis recommends users to update the device software. The latest Axis device software can be found here.
For further assistance and questions, please contact AXIS Technical Support.
For more information on this vulnerability, please visit the Axis vulnerability management portal.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
