
CVSS v3 5.6
ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: VAMPSET
Vulnerability: Memory Corruption
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports that the vulnerability affects the following VAMPSET setting and configuration software products:

VAMPSET, versions prior to v2.2.189

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a local attacker to cause the software to enter a denial-of-service condition. The Windows operating system remains operational through the attack.
MITIGATION
Schneider Electric has updated the VAMPSET tool in order to recognize malformed setting files. A new version of firmware with the fix for this vulnerability is available for download at the following location:
http://www.schneider-electric.com/en/download/document/VAMPSET_v2.2.191/
After the new version of firmware is installed, when a malformed file is loaded VAMPSET will remain operational and report to the user: “Cannot open file.”
Schneider Electric has issued Security Notification SEVD-2017-061-01, which contains additional information:
http://www.schneider-electric.com/en/download/document/SEVD-2017-061-01/
ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not remotely exploitable.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20

VAMPSET is susceptible to a memory corruption vulnerability when a corrupted settings file is loaded. This vulnerability causes the software to halt or not start when trying to open the corrupted file.
CVE-2017-7967 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.6 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:L/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Kushal Arvind Shah from Fortinet's Fortiguard Labs reported this vulnerability directly to Schneider Electric.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: France
