
CVSS v3 10.0
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit. Public exploits are available.
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: Trio TView
Vulnerabilities: Multiple Vulnerabilities for Java Runtime Environment
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Schneider Electric Trio TView, a management and diagnostics software, are affected:

Trio TView Software, TBUMPROG-TVIEW, Version 3.27.0 and prior.

IMPACT
Exploitation of these vulnerabilities may allow a remote attacker to compromise the Trio TView Management Suite.
MITIGATION
The Java Runtime Environment 1.8.0u131 is provided with TView Version 3.29.0 and is not affected by these vulnerabilities.
Schneider Electric recommends that users obtain the software with the fix for these vulnerabilities at the following location:
http://www.schneider-electric.us/en/download/document/Trio_TView_Software_/
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
A Java Runtime Environment is provided with TView. The Java Runtime Environment 1.6.0u27 is reported to have multiple vulnerabilities which may impact TView Version 3.27.0 and earlier. The breakdown of the vulnerabilities by CVSS score is as follows:

180 vulnerabilities were identified as having a CVSS base score of 7.0-10,
161 vulnerabilities were identified as having a CVSS base score of 4.0-6.9, and
24 vulnerabilities were identified as having a CVSS base score of 0.0-3.9.

For more information on these vulnerabilities, please see Schneider Electric Security Notification SEVD-2017-199-01 at the following location:
http://www.schneider-electric.com/en/download/document/SEVD-2017-199-01/
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen has reported these vulnerabilities.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Paris, France
