
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: PanelView 800
Vulnerabilities: Out-of-bounds Write, Out-of-bounds Read

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow remote code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of PanelView 800, a graphics terminal, are affected: 

PanelView 800-2711R-T4T: Version 5.011 to 8.011
PanelView 800-2711R-T7T: Version 5.011 to 8.011
PanelView 800-2711R-T10T: Version 5.011 to 8.011

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The affected product is vulnerable to an out-of-bounds write, which could allow an attacker to accomplish a heap buffer overflow if the user has the email feature enabled in the project file  WolfSSL uses. This feature is disabled by default.
CVE-2020-36177 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2 OUT-OF BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The affected product is vulnerable to an out-of-bounds read, which could allow an attacker to accomplish a heap buffer overflow if the user has the email feature enabled in the project file WolfSSL uses. This feature is disabled by default.
CVE-2019-16748 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Energy, Water and Wastewater, Telecommunications
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Users of the affected software are encouraged to apply the following risk mitigations, if possible:

Upgrade to V8.011, which has been patched to mitigate these issues.
Ensure the email feature is disabled (it is disabled by default).
For information on mitigating security risks on industrial automation control systems (IACS) networks, see the following:

System Security Design Guidelines Reference Manual publication, SECURE-RM001
Configure System Security Features User Manual, SECURE-UM001


Rockwell Automation encourages users to implement their suggested security best practices to minimize risk of vulnerability.
For additional information, refer to Rockwell Automation’s Security Bulletin.

CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
