
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Exemys
Equipment: RME1
Vulnerability: Improper Authentication

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker with network access to bypass authentication and perform administrative operations.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Exemys RME1, an analog acquisition module, are affected:

Exemys RME1-AI firmware: All versions prior to and including 2.1.6 

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287
By using a specific credential string, an attacker with network access to the device’s web interface could circumvent the authentication scheme and perform administrative operations.
CVE-2022-2197 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Argentina

3.4 RESEARCHER
Maxim Rupp reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Exemys no longer sells or maintains RME1 and considers it to be an end-of-life product. Exemys recommends updating to a new supported product in RME2.
For more information on upgrading, contact Exemys support.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
