
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 10.0
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity/known public exploitation
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Stratix 5800 and Stratix 5200
Vulnerabilities: Unprotected Alternate Channel, OS Command Injection

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an unauthenticated attacker to take control of the affected system.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Stratix products and the contained Cisco IOS software are affected:

Stratix 5800 (running Cisco IOS XE Software with the Web UI feature enabled): All versions
Stratix 5200 (running Cisco IOS XE Software with the Web UI feature enabled): All versions

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 UNPROTECTED ALTERNATE CHANNEL CWE-420
Rockwell Automation is aware of active exploitation of a previously unknown vulnerability in the web user interface feature of Cisco IOS XE Software when exposed to the internet or to untrusted networks. This vulnerability allows a remote, unauthenticated threat actor to create an account on a vulnerable system with privilege level 15 access. The threat actor could then potentially use that account to gain control of the affected system.
CVE-2023-20198 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 10.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2 IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF SPECIAL ELEMENTS USED IN AN OS COMMAND ('OS COMMAND INJECTION') CWE-78
Rockwell Automation is aware of active exploitation of a previously unknown vulnerability in the Web UI feature of Cisco IOS XE Software when exposed to the internet or to untrusted networks. This vulnerability could allow an authenticated, remote attacker to inject commands with the privileges of root. This vulnerability is due to insufficient input validation. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by sending crafted input to the web UI. A successful exploit could allow the attacker to inject commands to the underlying operating system with root privileges.
CVE-2023-20273 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United states

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation strongly encourages users to follow guidance disabling Stratix HTTP servers on all internet-facing systems.

To disable the HTTP Server feature, use the no ip http server or no ip http secure-server command in global configuration mode. If both the HTTP server and HTTPS server are in use, both commands are required to disable the HTTP Server feature.
Cisco Talos has provided Indicators of Compromise and Snort rules that can be found here.
Access Control Lists should be enabled to only allow specific IP addresses to access the Web UI of the device. Detailed instructions on how to create the Access Control List is in QA67053. (Login required)
When implementing access controls for these services, be sure to review the controls because there is the potential for an interruption in production services.

For more information, see Rockwell Automation's Security Advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

October 24, 2023: Initial Publication
November 21, 2023: Additional CVE added in the vulnerability overview and mitigation section amended

