
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.2
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SINEC NMS
Vulnerability: OS Command Injection

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an authenticated remote attacker with system privileges to execute arbitrary code on the system under certain conditions.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of SINEC NMS are affected:

SINEC NMS: All versions prior to v1.0 SP2

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF SPECIAL ELEMENTS USED IN AN OS COMMAND ('OS COMMAND INJECTION') CWE-78
The affected application incorrectly neutralizes special elements when creating batch operations, which could lead to command injection. An authenticated remote attacker with administrative privileges could exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary code.
CVE-2021-33721 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Chemical, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Noam Moshe from Claroty reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released updates for the following products:

SINEC NMS: Update to v1.0 SP2 or later version

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends users configure the environment according to Siemens operational guidelines for industrial security and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information about this issue, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-756744
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
