
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


CVSS v3 7.1

ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Delta Electronics
Equipment: PMSoft
Vulnerabilities: Multiple Stack-Based Buffer Overflow vulnerabilities

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could cause the application to crash; stack-based buffer overflow conditions may allow arbitrary code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of PMSoft, a software development tool for motion controllers, are affected:

PMSoft v 2.10 or prior.

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1   STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121
The application has multiple stack-based buffer overflow vulnerabilities where a .ppm file can introduce a value larger than is readable by PMSoft’s fixed-length stack buffer. This can cause the buffer to be overwritten, which may allow arbitrary code execution or cause the application to crash.
CVE-2018-8839 has been assigned to these vulnerabilities. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Taiwan

3.4 RESEARCHER
Ghirmay Desta, working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, reported these vulnerabilities to NCCIC.
4. MITIGATIONS
Delta Electronics recommends affected users update to at least PMSoft v2.11, which was made available as of March 22, 2018, or the latest available version. This update can be found for download at the following location:
http://www.deltaww.com/Products/PluginWebUserControl/downloadCenterCounter.aspx?DID=2092&DocPath=1&hl=en-US
NCCIC recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS-CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT website.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
NCCIC also recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
