
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.6
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Enhanced HIM
Vulnerability: Cross-site Request Forgery

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could lead to sensitive information disclosure and full remote access to the affected products.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Rockwell Automation’s Enhanced HIM, a communication interface, are affected:

Enhanced HIM: Version 1.001

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 CROSS-SITE REQUEST FORGERY (CSRF) CWE-352 
The API the application uses is not protected sufficiently and uses incorrect Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) settings and, as a result, is vulnerable to a Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attack. To exploit this vulnerability, a malicious user would have to convince a user to click on an untrusted link through a social engineering attack or successfully perform a Cross Site Scripting Attack (XSS). Exploitation of a CSRF could potentially lead to sensitive information disclosure and full remote access to the affected products.
CVE-2023-2746 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.6 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation recommends users of the affected software take risk mitigation steps listed below. Users are encouraged, when possible, to combine this guidance with the general security guidelines for a comprehensive defense-in-depth strategy.
To mitigate the vulnerability, users are directed to update to:

Enhanced HIM Version 1.002

Additionally, users should follow Rockwell Automation’s Best Security Practices to mitigate the potential risk of other vulnerabilities.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
