
CVSS v3 7.3
ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: Wonderware InduSoft Web Studio
Vulnerability: Incorrect Default Permissions
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Schneider Electric’s Wondeware InduSoft Web Studio are affected:

Wonderware InduSoft Web Studio v8.0 Patch 3 and prior versions.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an authenticated user to escalate his or her privileges.
MITIGATION
Schneider Electric released Wonderware InduSoft Web Studio v8.0 + Service Pack 1 to address this vulnerability. It can be found at the following location:
http://www.indusoft.com/Products-Downloads
For more information, users of affected products can read Schneider Electric’s Security Notification at the following location:
http://www.schneider-electric.com/en/download/document/SEVD-2017-090-02/
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not remotely exploitable.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

iNCORRECT DEFAULT PERMISSIONS CWE-276

Upon installation, Wonderware InduSoft Web Studio creates a new directory and two files, which are placed in the system’s path and can be manipulated by non-administrators. This could allow an authenticated user to escalate his or her privileges.
CVE-2017-7968 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen identified this vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Healthcare and Public Health, Water and Wastewater Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Paris, France
