
Skip to main content Toolbar items Manage Administration menu Tools Extend Tools Content Extend Content Structure Configuration Extend Configuration Help Horizontal orientation dgloria Edit ICS Advisory ARC Informatique PcVue (Update A) Primary tabs View Edit(active tab) Delete Revisions Breadcrumb Home ARC Informatique PcVue (Update A) Is Medical Advisory No Yes Title ARC Informatique PcVue (Update A) docid ICSA-22-235-01 Enter a document ID in the form of ICSA-YY-XXX-ZZ Where Y is the 2 digit year, X is julian day e.g, ICSA-13-045-01 Description About text formats Body (Edit summary)
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.5
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: ARC Informatique
Equipment: PcVue
Vulnerability: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information

2. UPDATE INFORMATION
This updated advisory is a follow-up to the advisory update titled ICSA-22-235-01 ARC Informatique PcVue that was published August 23, 2022, to the ICS webpage on www.cisa.gov/uscert.
3. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to access the OAuth web service database.
4. TECHNICAL DETAILS
4.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following ARC Informatique product components are affected:
--------- Begin Update A part 1 of 2 ---------

PcVue 12 OAuth web service configuration versions prior to 12.0.27
PcVue 15 OAuth web service configuration versions prior to 15.2.3

--------- End Update A part 1 of 2 ---------

PcVue 12 OAuth web service configuration
PcVue 15 OAuth web service configuration

4.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
4.2.1    CLEARTEXT STORAGE OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION CWE-312
The affected device stores sensitive information in cleartext, which may allow an authenticated user to access session data stored in the OAuth database belonging to legitimate users.
CVE-2022-2569 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N). 
4.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

4.4 RESEARCHER
An unnamed researcher reported this vulnerability to ARC Informatique.
5. MITIGATIONS
ARC Informatique recommends users apply the following updates:

PcVue 12: The fix is available in Maintenance release 12.0.27

--------- Begin Update A part 2 of 2 ---------

PcVue 15: The fix is available in Maintenance release 15.2.3
After installing either fix, ARC Informatique recommends doing the following:
After installing the fix, users should update the Web Deployment Console (WDC) and re-deploy the Web Server. 
All users using the affected component should install a patched release of the WDC and re-deploy the Web Server. This will allow the WDC to update and protect the database connection string, including clearing any sensitive information stored in the web.config file.

--------- End Update A part 2 of 2 ---------

 

After installing the fix, users should update the Web Deployment Console (WDC) and re-deploy the Web Server. 
All users using the affected component should install a patched release of the WDC and re-deploy the Web Server. This will allow the WDC to update and protect the database connection string, including clearing any sensitive information stored in the web.config file.


PcVue 15: A fix is forthcoming.

ARC Informatique has identified additional steps users can apply to reduce the risk:

Uninstall the Web Server

All users not using the affected component should uninstall the web server. The OAuth web service and its configuration are part of the Web Server for PcVue. If the system does not require Web & Mobile features, then users should not install them.



Users should contact ARC Informatique’s PcVue Solutions for assistance with the above steps.
For additional information, visit the public ARC Informatique security alert page.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
About text formats Show row weights Vendor Vendor (value 1) ARC Informatique Vendor (value 2) Enter as many associated vendors as required, for example Honeywell Published Last saved 09/29/2022 - 10:39 Author ajohnson Create new revision Revisions are required. Revision log message Briefly describe the changes you have made. METATAG URL REDIRECTS URL ALIAS (Automatic alias) Generate automatic URL alias Uncheck this to create a custom alias below. URL alias /ics/advisories/icsa-22-235-01-0 Specify an alternative path by which this data can be accessed. For example, type "/about" when writing an about page. AUTHORING INFORMATION (By ajohnson (12364) on 2022-09-29) PROMOTION OPTIONS (Not promoted) Current state Published Change to Published Delete Tray "Administration menu" opened.
