
​​As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global). 
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

​CVSS v3 7.8
​ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
​Vendor: Siemens
​Equipment: JT Open, JT Utilities, and Parasolid
​Vulnerabilities: Out-of-bounds Read

2. RISK EVALUATION
​Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
​The following products from Siemens are affected:

​JT Open: All versions prior to v11.4
​JT Utilities: All versions prior to v13.4
​Parasolid v34.0: All versions prior to v34.0.253
​Parasolid v34.1: All versions prior to v34.1.243
​Parasolid v35.0: All versions prior to v35.0.177
​Parasolid v35.1: All versions prior to v35.1.073

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 ​OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
​The affected applications contain an out-of-bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted JT files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
​CVE-2023-30795 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2 ​OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
​The affected applications contain an out-of-bounds read past the end of an allocated structure while parsing specially crafted JT files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
​CVE-2023-30796 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

​CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
​COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
​COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
​Michael Heinzl reported these vulnerabilities to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens released updates for the affected products and recommends updating to the latest versions: 

​Parasolid V35.1: Update to V35.1.073 or later version.
​Parasolid V35.0: Update to V35.0.177 or later version.
​Parasolid V34.1: Update to V34.1.243 or later version.
​Parasolid V34.0: Update to V34.0.253 or later version.
​JT Utilities: Update to V13.4 or later version.
​JT Open: Update to V11.4 or later version.

​Siemens identified the following specific workarounds and users can apply to reduce risk: 


​Do not open untrusted files using Parasolid, JT Open Toolkit, or JT Utilities.


​As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to the Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
​Additional information on Siemens industrial security can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage
​For further inquiries on security vulnerabilities in Siemens products and solutions, please contact the Siemens ProductCERT.
​For more information, see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-001569 in HTML and CSAF.
​CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

​Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
​Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
​When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

​CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
​CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
​Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
​Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
​No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
