
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 10.0
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: EcoStruxure IT Gateway
Vulnerability: Missing Authorization

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow unauthorized access.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports that the following versions of EcoStruxure IT Gateway are affected:

EcoStruxure IT Gateway: 1.21.0.6
EcoStruxure IT Gateway: 1.22.0.3
EcoStruxure IT Gateway: 1.22.1.5
EcoStruxure IT Gateway: 1.23.0.4

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 MISSING AUTHORIZATION CWE-862
A missing authorization vulnerability exists that could cause unauthorized access when enabled on the network and potentially impacting connected devices.
CVE-2024-10575 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for  CVE-2024-10575. A base score of 10 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:N/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:H/SI:L/SA:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Information Technology, Healthcare and Public Health, Critical Manufacturing, Transportation Systems, Energy, Chemical
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Schneider Electric reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric recommends users download EcoStruxure IT Gateway version 1.23.1.10 to remediate this vulnerability. The link also provides instructions. Versions prior to 1.21.0.6 are not impacted by this vulnerability.
Schneider Electric encourages users to enable automatic updates to receive updates promptly. Users who have enabled automatic updates do not need to take any further action.
Users should protect the Gateway from remote access by controlling access to the software over a network. The following actions could be taken:

Place the Gateway software on protected access-controlled networks only
Implement a local firewall to deny remote access to the web API.
Remove the Gateway software and installing a clean build of 1.23.1.10

Schneider Electric strongly recommend the following industry cybersecurity best practices:

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
Install physical controls so no unauthorized personnel can access your industrial control and safety systems, components, peripheral equipment, and networks.
Place all controllers in locked cabinets and never leave them in the "Program" mode.
Never connect programming software to any network other than the network intended for that device.
Scan all methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc. before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Never allow mobile devices that have connected to any other network besides the intended network to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs). Recognize that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current versionavailable. Also, understand that VPNs are only as secure as the connected devices.

For more information refer to the Schneider Electric Recommended Cybersecurity Best Practices document and the associated Schneider Electric Security Notification SEVD-2024-317-04 in PDF and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 21, 2024: Initial Publication

