
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 8.5
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: FactoryTalk View Site Edition
Vulnerability: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow any user to edit or replace files, which are executed by account with elevated permissions.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Rockwell Automation reports that the following versions of FactoryTalk, an HMI application, are affected:

FactoryTalk View SE: version 13.0

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource CWE-732
A code execution vulnerability exists in the affected product. The vulnerability occurs due to improper default file permissions allowing any user to edit or replace files, which are executed by account with elevated permissions.
CVE-2024-7513 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 8.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-7513. A base score of 8.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:L/AC:L/AT:N/PR:L/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Chemical, Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Government Facilities, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
By default, all HMI server projects are saved in the HMI projects folder on the HMI server computer located at C:\Users\Public\Documents\RSView Enterprise\SE\HMI projects. Rockwell Automation encourages users of the affected software to enhance security and prevent unauthorized modifications to these projects by tightening the Windows folder's security settings on the HMI server computer by following these steps:

Remove the INTERACTIVE group from the folder's security properties.
Add specific users or user groups and assign their permissions to this folder as needed.
If you assign read-only permission to those users or user groups, they can only view and will not be able to write to project files. Users with read-only permission can still test run and run the FactoryTalk View SE client.
In Version 14: Open FactoryTalk View Studio -> Help -> FactoryTalk View SE Help -> In the Help file -> Security -> "HMI projects folder"
For information on how to mitigate security risks on industrial automation control systems, Rockwell Automation encourages users to implement their suggested security best practices to minimize the risk of the vulnerability.

For more information, refer to Rockwell Automation's security advisory SD 1688.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

August 13, 2024: Initial Publication
August 29, 2024: Update A - Changed mitigation information.

