
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Siveillance Video Client
Vulnerability: Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to obtain valid administrator login names and use this information to launch further attacks.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Siveillance Video Client, an IP video management software, are affected:

Siveillance Video Client: all versions

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    CLEARTEXT TRANSMISSION OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION CWE-319
In environments where Windows NTLM authentication is enabled, the affected client application transmits usernames to the server in cleartext. This could allow an attack in a privileged network position to obtain valid administrator login names and use this information to launch further attacks.
CVE-2020-15785 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial facilities
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens ProductCERT reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce the risk:

Apply the patch provided for current versions.
Use Kerberos authentication instead of NTLM as described in the Siveillance Video Hardening Guide.

As a general security measure Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to affected products with appropriate mechanisms. It is advised to follow recommended security practices to run the devices in a protected IT environment.
For additional information, please refer to Siemens Security Advisory: SSA-770698
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
