
CVSS v3 6.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Eaton
Equipment: ELCSoft
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
ELCSoft is programming software for all Eaton ELC programmable logic controllers. The ELC programmable logic controllers are not affected by this vulnerability. The following versions of ELCSoft are affected:

ELCSoft Versions 2.04.02 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code.
MITIGATION
Eaton has released new firmware for ELCSoft that is available via the following link:
http://www.eaton.com/ecm/idcplg?IdcService=GET_FILE&allowInterrupt=1&RevisionSelectionMethod=LatestReleased&noSaveAs=0&Rendition=Primary&dDocName=PCT_3313148
Eaton states the current firmware needs to be uninstalled prior to loading the update.
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the NCCIC Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT website.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20

There are multiple cases where specially crafted files could cause a buffer overflow which, in turn, may allow remote execution of arbitrary code.
CVE-2018-7511 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
RESEARCHER
Ariele Caltabiano (kimiya) and axt working with Trend Micro's Zero Day Initiative reported the vulnerability to NCCIC.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Dublin, Ireland
