
CVSS v3 7.1
ATTENTION: Local access and user-level privileges are required to exploit these vulnerabilities
Vendor: AzeoTech
Equipment: DAQFactory
Vulnerabilities: Incorrect Default Permissions, Uncontrolled Search Path Element
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
AzeoTech reports that the vulnerabilities affect the following versions of DAQFactory HMI:

DAQFactory versions prior to 17.1

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow authenticated system users to escalate their privileges and modify or replace application files.
MITIGATION
According to AzeoTech, the newest version (Version 17.1) gives write privileges only to administrators and no longer searches for dlls outside of the application directory.
AzeoTech provides the following instructions to upgrade to Version 17.1. Existing users can download and install the DAQFactory trial from the following web site over their existing installation at no charge:
http://www.AzeoTech.com/downloads.php
The user’s license is maintained. Because this is the standard update path for DAQFactory, most users will be familiar with the process.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks. Specifically, users should:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not remotely exploitable.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

INCORRECT DEFAULT PERMISSIONS CWE-276

Local, non-administrative users may be able to replace or modify original application files with malicious ones.
CVE-2017-12699 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N).

UNCONTROLLED SEARCH PATH ELEMENT CWE-427

An uncontrolled search path element vulnerability has been identified, which may execute malicious DLL files that have been placed within the search path.
CVE-2017-5147 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen reported these vulnerabilities to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical manufacturing, Energy, and Water
Countries/Areas Deployed: United States and Europe
Company Headquarters Location: United States
