
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely 
Vendor: Mitsubishi Electric Corporation 
Equipment: GOT Mobile Function on GOT2000 Series and GT SoftGOT2000 
Vulnerabilities: Authentication Bypass by Spoofing, Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames 

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow attackers to perform unintended operations through clickjacking (an attack that tricks users into clicking an invisible or disguised webpage element) or allow attackers to disclose sensitive information from their browsers or impersonate legitimate users by abusing inappropriate HTML attributes. 
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Mitsubishi Electric reports these vulnerabilities affect the GOT Mobile Function on the following products: 

GOT2000 Series: 

GT27 model: GOT Mobile versions 01.14.000–01.47.000 
GT25 model: GOT Mobile versions 01.14.000–01.47.000 


GT SoftGOT2000: software versions 1.265B–1.285X 

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 AUTHENTICATION BYPASS BY SPOOFING CWE-290 
This vulnerability could allow an attacker to impersonate legitimate users by abusing inappropriate HTML attributes or cause users' browsers to disclose sensitive information. 
CVE-2022-40269 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N). 
3.2.2 IMPROPER RESTRICTION OF RENDERED UI LAYERS OR FRAMES CWE-1021 
This vulnerability could allow an attacker to lead legitimate users to perform unintended operations through clickjacking. 
CVE-2022-40268 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N). 
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing 
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide 
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Japan 

3.4 RESEARCHER
Mitsubishi Electric reported these vulnerabilities to CISA. 
4. MITIGATIONS
Mitsubishi Electric recommends users update to the latest software versions. Mitsubishi Electric’s security advisory contains step-by-step update instructions: 

GOT2000 Series 

GT27 model: Update to GOT Mobile version 01.48.000 or later. 
GT25 model: Update to GOT Mobile version 01.48.000 or later. 


GT SoftGOT2000: Update to software version 1.290C or later. 

Mitsubishi Electric recommends users take the following mitigations to minimize the exploitation risk of these vulnerabilities: 

When internet access is required, use a firewall, virtual private network (VPN), etc. to prevent unauthorized access. 
Use devices within a local area network (LAN) and block access from untrusted networks and hosts. 
Install antivirus software on hosts running affected software/firmware. 
Use the IP filter function to control access via IP address. 

GT Designer3 (GOT2000) Screen Design Manual (SH-081220ENG). “5.4.3 Setting the IP filter” 


Disable GOT Mobile Function. 

Users should refer to Mitsubishi Electric’s security advisory for further information. 
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are exploitable remotely. These vulnerabilities have a high attack complexity.
