
CVSS v3 7.5
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Digital Canal Structural
Equipment: Wind Analysis
Vulnerability: Stack-Based Buffer Overflow
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Wind Analysis, a structural engineering software platform, are affected:

Wind Analysis versions 9.1 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could cause the device that the attacker is accessing to become unavailable, resulting in a denial of service.
MITIGATION
Digital Canal Structural recommends that users upgrade to the latest version of the software, which can be obtained from the following location:
ftp://ftp.digitalcanal.com/CLIENT_SUPPORT/Structural/Products/Wind9/WindV9Setup.exe
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121

An attacker may be able to run arbitrary code by remotely exploiting an executable to perform a denial-of-service attack.
CVE-2017-7910 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen has identified the vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Commercial Facilities
Countries/Areas Deployed: United States
Company Headquarters Location: Dubuque, Iowa
