
CVSS v3 8.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Digium
Equipment: Asterisk GUI
Vulnerability:  Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Asterisk GUI, a framework for configuring graphical user interfaces, are affected:

Asterisk GUI 2.1.0 and prior

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could cause an authenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code on the device.
MITIGATION
Asterisk GUI is no longer maintained and should not be used. Digium recommends affected users to migrate to Digium’s SwitchVox product.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF SPECIAL ELEMENTS USED IN AN OS COMMAND ('OS COMMAND INJECTION') CWE-78

An OS command injection vulnerability has been identified that may allow the execution of arbitrary code on the system through the inclusion of OS commands in the URL request of the program.
CVE-2017-14001 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Davy Douhine of RandoriSec reported the vulnerability to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Commercial Facilities, Communications, and Critical Manufacturing.
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Alabama, United States
