
CVSS v3 7.3
ATTENTION: Remotely Exploitable/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Ecava
Equipment: IntegraXor
Vulnerability: SQL Injection
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following IntegraXor version is affected:

IntegraXor Version 5.0.413.0

IMPACT
A successful exploit of this vulnerability could lead to arbitrary data leakage, data manipulation, and remote code execution.
MITIGATION
Ecava provides software update V5.2.722.2 for IntegraXor, which fixes this vulnerability and recommends users update to the new version. The update can be found here:
https://www.integraxor.com/download-scada/
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

SQL INJECTION CWE-89

The Ecava IntegraXor web server has parameters that are vulnerable to SQL injection. If the queries are not sanitized, the host’s database could be subject to read, write, and delete commands.
CVE-2016-8341 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
RESEARCHER
Independent researchers Brian Gorenc and Juan Pablo Lopez working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative have identified the SQL injection vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Water and Wastewater Systems, Transportation Systems
Countries Deployed: United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Poland, Canada, Estonia
Company Headquarters Location: Malaysia
