
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.2
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: FactoryTalk Linx
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could lead to information disclosure or a denial-of-service condition.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Rockwell products are affected:

FactoryTalk Linx: v6.20 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
FactoryTalk Linx, in the Rockwell Automation PanelView Plus, allows an unauthenticated threat actor to read data from memory via crafted malicious packets. Sending a size larger than the buffer size results in leakage of data from memory resulting in an information disclosure. If the size is large enough, it causes communications over the common industrial protocol to become unresponsive to any type of packet, resulting in a denial-of-service to FactoryTalk Linx over the common industrial protocol.
CVE-2023-29464 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Yuval Gordon, CPS Research, Microsoft Threat Intelligence Community reported this vulnerability to Rockwell Automation.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation recommends users of the affected versions to upgrade to corrected firmware revisions. Users are also strongly encouraged to implement the suggested security best practices to minimize the risk of the vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Install the security patches for the respective versions.
Security Best Practices

CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

October 17, 2023: Initial Publication

