
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


CVSS v3 7.8

ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: Eurotherm by Schneider Electric GUIcon
Vulnerabilities: Type Confusion, Stack-based Buffer Overflow

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities may allow an attacker to execute code with privileges within the context of the application.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following product is affected:

Eurotherm by Schneider Electric GUIcon Version 2.0 (Gold Build 683.0)

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    ACCESS OF RESOURCE USING INCOMPATIBLE TYPE ('TYPE CONFUSION') CWE-843
A type confusion vulnerability exists on pcwin.dll that could cause remote code to be executed when parsing a GD1 file.
CVE-2018-7813 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2    ACCESS OF RESOURCE USING INCOMPATIBLE TYPE ('TYPE CONFUSION') CWE-843
A type confusion vulnerability exists on c3core.dll that could cause remote code to be executed when parsing a GD1 file.
CVE-2018-7815 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.3    STACK-BASED BUFFER OVERFLOW CWE-121
A stack-based buffer overflow vulnerability exists that could cause remote code to be executed when parsing a GD1 file.
CVE-2018-7814 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
mdm and rgod of 9SG Security Team, working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, reported these vulnerabilities to NCCIC.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric recommends upgrading to GUIcon Version 2.0 Software Package (Gold Build 683.003), which includes fixes for these vulnerabilities is available for download below:https://www.eurotherm.com/products/temperature-controllers/config-software/guicon
For more information refer to Schneider Electric’s security notification:https://www.schneider-electric.com/ww/en/download/document/SEVD-2018-338-01
Schneider Electric also recommends the following cybersecurity best practices such as:

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
Physical controls should be in place so that no unauthorized person would have access to the ICS and safety controllers, peripheral equipment or the ICS and safety networks.
All controllers should reside in locked cabinets and never be left in the “Program” mode.
All programming software should be kept in locked cabinets and should never be connected to any network other than the network for the devices that it is intended.
All methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network such as CDs, USB drives, etc. should be scanned before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Laptops that have connected to any other network besides the intended network should never be allowed to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

For further information related to cybersecurity in Schneider Electric’s products, visit the company’s cybersecurity web page:http://www2.schneider-electric.com/sites/corporate/en/support/cybersecurity/cybersecurity.page
NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS-CERT website in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
NCCIC also recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely.
