
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: JT2Go and Teamcenter Visualization
Vulnerability: Out-of-bounds Write

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports the vulnerability affects the following products:

JT2Go: All versions prior to 13.1.0.3
Teamcenter Visualization: All versions prior to 13.1.0.3

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The TIFF_loader.dll library in affected applications lacks proper validation of user-supplied data when parsing TIFF files, which could result in an out-of-bounds write past the end of an allocated structure and may allow an attacker to execute code in the context of the current process.
CVE-2021-27390 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends updating to the following versions:

JT2Go: Update to v13.1.0.3 or later
Teamcenter Visualization: Update to v13.1.0.3 or later (Login Required)

Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce the risk:

Avoid opening untrusted files from unknown sources in JT2Go and Teamcenter Visualization.

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for Industrial Security and following the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on Industrial Security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
Please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-645530 for more information.
CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
