
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.2
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity/exploitable remotely
Vendor: Automated Logic is a part of Carrier Global Corporation
Equipment: WebCtrl Server
Vulnerability: Open Redirect

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to redirect the user to a malicious webpage or to download a malicious file.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Carrier reports this vulnerability affects the following Automated Logic WebCtrl Server building automation software products:

WebCtrl Server: All versions up to 7.0

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    OPEN REDIRECT CWE-601
WebCtrl Version 6.1 “Help” index pages are vulnerable to open redirection. If a user visits a maliciously crafted URL, this vulnerability could allow an attacker to redirect a user to a malicious webpage or download a malicious file.
CVE-2022-1019 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:L/I:L/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Chizuru Toyama of TXOne IoT/ICS Security Research Labs, working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Carrier recommends users contact an Automated Logic dealer for instructions to download the latest version of WebCTRL.
Carrier also recommends the following manual workaround:

An administrator can add the CSP header/meta tag to each “index.htm” file in each of the directories under “<install_dir>/webroot/_common/lvl5/help/*”
Example would read: <meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="default-src 'self'; img-src 'self' data:; font-src 'self' data:; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval'; style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'">

Please see Carrier product security advisory CARR-PSA-001-1121 for more information.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
