
CVSS v3 5.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: ABB
Equipment: netCADOPS Web Application
Vulnerability: Information Exposure
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of netCADOPS Web Application, a web interface, are affected:

netCADOPS Web Application Version 3.4 and prior,
netCADOPS Web Application Version 7.1 and prior,
netCADOPS Web Application Version 7.2x and prior,
netCADOPS Web Application Version 8.0 and prior, and
netCADOPS Web Application Version 8.1 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow critical information about the database to be exposed.
MITIGATION
ABB has released the following product updates to mitigate the vulnerability:

ADMS 3.4.34.6 Release 16, February 2018
ADMS 7.1.16.1 Release 16, February 2018
ADMS 7.2.10 Release 16, February 2018
ADMS 8.0.20 Release 16, February 2018
ADMS 8.1.7.1 Release 16, February 2018

Please see ABB Cyber Security Advisory number 9AKK107045A9236 for more information about this vulnerability:
http://search.abb.com/library/Download.aspx?DocumentID=9AKK107045A9592&LanguageCode=en&DocumentPartId=&Action=Launch
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the NCCIC Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT website.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

INFORMATION EXPOSURE CWE-200

A vulnerability exists in the password entry section of netCADOPS Web Application that may expose critical database information.
CVE-2018-5477 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:L/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
İsmail Erkek of Barikat Internet Security reported this vulnerability to NCCIC.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Switzerland
