
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 3.7
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Spectrum Power
Vulnerabilities: Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information, Exposure of Information Through Directory Listing

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an unauthorized attacker to retrieve a list of software users, or in certain cases to list the contents of a directory.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Spectrum Power are affected:

Spectrum Power: All versions prior to v4.70 SP8

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    CLEARTEXT STORAGE OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION CWE-312
Insecure storage of sensitive information in the configuration files could allow the retrieval of usernames. 
CVE-2020-15784 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 3.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
3.2.2    EXPOSURE OF INFORMATION THROUGH DIRECTORY LISTING CWE-548
The affected product may be susceptible to a directory listing attack if configured improperly. 
CVE-2020-15790 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 3.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Can Demirel of Cyberwise reported these vulnerabilities to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has released updates and configuration recommendations for Spectrum Power 4 to mitigate the issues. Please contact a Siemens representative for further information.
Because operators of critical power systems (e.g., TSOs or DSOs) worldwide are usually required by regulations to build resilience into the power grids by applying multi-level redundant secondary protection schemes, Siemens recommends that the operators check whether appropriate resilient protection measures are in place. The risk of cyber incidents impacting the grid’s reliability can thus be minimized by virtue of the grid design.
Siemens strongly recommends applying the provided security updates using the corresponding tooling and documented procedures made available with the product. If supported by the product, an automated means to apply the security updates across multiple product instances may be used. Siemens strongly recommends prior validation of any security update before being applied, and supervision by trained staff of the update process in the target environment. 
As a general security measure Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access with appropriate mechanisms (e.g., firewalls, segmentation, VPN). It is advised to configure the environment according to their operational guidelines to run the devices in a protected IT environment. See Siemens' recommended security guidelines for Digital Grid Products.
For additional information, please refer to Siemens Security Advisory: SSA-568969
CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities. High skill level is needed to exploit.
