
CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Saia Burgess Controls
Equipment: PCD Controllers
Vulnerability: Information Exposure
REPOSTED INFORMATION
This advisory was originally posted to the NCCIC Portal on August 22, 2017, and is being released to the NCCIC/ICS-CERT web site.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Saia Burgess Controls reports that the vulnerability affects the following PCD Controllers:

PCD firmware versions prior to 1.28.16 or 1.24.69

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to obtain information in memory.
MITIGATION
Saia Burgess Controls strongly recommends that users update to the latest versions of firmware, Version 1.28.16 or 1.24.69.
The security upgrade section of the Saia Burgess Controls web page links to the latest versions and offers security tips and upgrade information:
https://www.sbc-support.com/en/product-category/communication-protocols/pcd-on-internet/upgrade-it-security/
Please see the latest update information for this product at the following web site:
https://www.sbc-support.com/en/product-index/
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

INFORMATION EXPOSURE CWE-200

In certain circumstances, the device pads Ethernet frames with memory contents.
CVE-2017-9628 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Davide Fauri of Eindhoven University of Technology discovered and reported this vulnerability to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Chemical and Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Switzerland
