
CVSS v3 8.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Satel Iberia
Equipment: SenNet Data Logger and Electricity Meters
Vulnerability: Command Injection
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of SenNet Data Logger and Electricity Meters, monitoring platforms, are affected:

SenNet Optimal DataLogger V5.37c-1.43c and prior,
SenNet Solar Datalogger V5.03-1.56a and prior, and
SenNet Multitask Meter V5.21a-1.18b and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow the attacker to gain root privilege to run arbitrary commands and change system data.
MITIGATION
Satel Iberia recommends that affected users upgrade to the latest version available. The latest version can be obtained from Satel Iberia support at support@satelspain.com.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

COMMAND INJECTION CWE-77

Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could result in the attacker breaking out of the jailed shell and gaining full access to the system.
CVE-2017-6048 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshan discovered this vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Transportation Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Americas and Europe
Company Headquarters Location: Spain
