
CVSS v3 7.5
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Newport
Equipment: XPS-Cx, XPS-Qx
Vulnerability: Improper Authentication
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of XPS-Cx and XPS-Qx, a universal motion controller, are affected:

XPS-Cx all versions, and
XPS-Qx all versions.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow an attacker to view and edit settings without authenticating by accessing a specific uniform resource locator (URL).
MITIGATION
Newport reports that this issue will be addressed in the next generation XPS-Dx controller.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT and Newport recommend that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Not connect control components and control networks to an open network such as the Internet or an office network. Newport recommends putting control components and control networks behind a firewall.
Limit physical and electronic access to all automation components to authorized personnel only.
Change the default passwords before first use. This will reduce the risk of unauthorized access to systems.
Regularly change passwords. This will reduce the risk of unauthorized access to systems.
If remote access to control components and control networks is required, use a Virtual Private Network (VPN).
Regularly perform threat analyses. Check whether the measures taken meet company security requirements.
Use “defense-in-depth” mechanisms in the system’s security configuration to restrict the access to and control of individual products and networks.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287

An attacker may bypass authentication by accessing a specific uniform resource locator (URL).
CVE-2017-7919 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Maxim Rupp identified the vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Critical Manufacturing
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: United States
