
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 7.7
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: OptixPanel
Vulnerability: Improper Privilege Management

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow users to exfiltrate credentials and escalate privileges.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Rockwell Automation reports that the following operator panels are affected:

2800C OptixPanel Compact: version 4.0.0.325
2800S OptixPanel Standard: version 4.0.0.350
Embedded Edge Compute Module: version 4.0.0.347

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Improper Privilege Management CWE-269
A privilege escalation vulnerability exists in the affected product. The vulnerability occurs due to improper default file permissions allowing users to exfiltrate credentials and escalate privileges.
CVE-2024-8533 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-8533. A base score of 7.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:H/AT:N/PR:N/UI:P/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation addressed this issue in the following software versions:

2800C OptixPanel Compact: 4.0.2.116
2800S OptixPanel Standard: 4.0.2.123
Embedded Edge Compute Module: 4.0.2.106

For information on how to mitigate security risks on industrial automation control systems, Rockwell Automation encourages users implement their suggested security best practices to minimize the risk of the vulnerability.
For more information, see Rockwell Automation's security advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

September 12, 2024: Initial Publication

