
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Red Lion
Equipment: FlexEdge Gateway, DA50A, DA70A running Crimson
Vulnerability: Improper Neutralization of Null Byte or NUL Character

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to truncate passwords configured by the Crimson configuration tool which could create weaker than intended credentials.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Red Lion products are affected:

Crimson: v3.2.0053.18 or prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF NULL BYTE OR NUL CHARACTER CWE-158
The Crimson 3.2 Windows-based configuration tool allows users with administrative access to define new passwords for users and to download the resulting security configuration to a device. If such a password contains the percent (%) character, invalid values will be included, potentially truncating the string if a NUL is encountered. If the simplified password is not detected by the administrator, the device might be left in a vulnerable state as a result of more-easily compromised credentials. Note that passwords entered via the Crimson system web server do not suffer from this vulnerability.
CVE-2023-5719 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Alexander Ratelle of Hepburn Engineering Inc, reported this vulnerability to Red Lion.
4. MITIGATIONS
Red Lion recommends updating the Crimson configuration tool to version 3.2.0063 or later by using the automatic update feature or visiting the Red Lion website.
Any existing or new accounts created should refrain from using the percent (%) character in the configured password in versions 3.2.0053.18 or below.
For more information refer to Red Lion's security advisory RLCSIM-2023-04.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 2, 2023: Initial Publication

