
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: HID Global
Equipment: Reader Configuration Cards
Vulnerability: Improper Authorization

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to read the credential and device administration keys from a configuration card. Those keys could be used to create malicious configuration cards or credentials.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following HID products are affected:

HID iCLASS SE reader configuration cards: All versions
OMNIKEY Secure Elements reader configuration cards: All versions

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER AUTHORIZATION CWE-285
Sensitive data can be extracted from HID iCLASS SE reader configuration cards. This could include credential and device administrator keys.
CVE-2024-23806 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:P/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
HID Global reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
HID Global recommends the following mitigations to reduce the risk:


Elite Key and Custom Key customers that have kept their configuration cards secure should continue to be vigilant and restrict access to those cards. To exploit this vulnerability, a reader must be physically close to or in possession of the configuration cards to communicate with the card and extract information.


Administrators should plan to securely destroy unneeded configuration cards.


Customers using the HID standard key, and other customers who are concerned their keys may be compromised should consider steps to update the readers and credentials with new keys. To assist in this effort, HID will be introducing a free upgrade to the Elite Key program. Contact your HID representative for more information at https://www.hidglobal.com/support.


HID has also provided additional steps users can take steps to harden their readers to prevent malicious configuration changes.
iCLASS SE Readers

iCLASS SE Readers using firmware version 8.6.0.4 or higher can use the HID Reader Manager application to prevent the readers from accepting configuration changes from Configuration Cards.
	If you need assistance, or if the reader firmware has not been updated to 8.6.0.4 or higher, contact HID Technical Support.

HID OMNIKEY Readers, OMNIKEY Secure Elements, iCLASS SE Reader Modules, iCLASS SE Processors

Contact HID to receive a "Shield Card" that will prevent further configuration changes using reader configuration cards.

CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

February 6, 2024: Initial Publication

