
CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Marel
Equipment: Food Processing Systems
Vulnerabilities: Hard-Coded Passwords, Unrestricted Upload, Improper Access Control
UPDATE INFORMATION
This updated advisory is a follow-up to the updated advisory titled ICSA-17-094-02A Marel Food Processing Systems that was published August 17, 2017, on the NCCIC/ICS-CERT web site.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Marel food processing products are affected:

All M3000 terminal-based products contain hard-coded password and unrestricted file upload vulnerabilities:

Graders using M3000 terminal,
Portioning Machines using M3000 terminal,
Flowline systems using M3000 terminal,
Packing systems using M3000 terminal,
SensorX machines using M3000 terminal,
Target Batchers using M3000 terminal, and
SpeedBatchers using M3000 terminal.




All devices operating the Pluto platform contain an access control vulnerability:

Graders using Pluto platform,
Portioning Machines using Pluto platform,
Flowline systems using Pluto platform,
Packing systems using Pluto platform,
SensorX machines using Pluto platform,
Target Batchers using Pluto platform, and
SpeedBatchers using Pluto platform.



IMPACT
A remote attacker may be able to gain unauthorized administrative access to affected devices.
MITIGATION
--------- Begin Update B Part 1 of 1 --------
Marel has released a firewall update for the Pluto platform having version names Pluto1203 and Pluto2. The update for the firewall packages are as follows:

Pluto2, Version 1.0.0-gaf7c5e5-pluto2, and
Pluto1203, Version 1.0-0marel0.

These updates will restrict remote access by implementing SSH authentication.
--------- End Update B Part 1 of 1 ----------
Marel has created an update for Pluto-based applications, which was scheduled for release in October, 2017. This update will restrict remote access by implementing SSH authentication.
Marel reports that all M3000 terminal based products were at end-of-life in July 2012, and, thus, will not release product fixes to address the identified vulnerabilities. Marel recommends that users upgrade these end-of-life systems.
Further information regarding the vulnerabilities, mitigations, and Marel’s contact information is available at the following location:
http://marel.com/security-updates
ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Restrict network access to affected systems and ensure that they are not directly accessible from the Internet.
Close all unused ports on affected systems.
Follow good network design practices that include network separation and segmentation, use DMZs with properly configured firewalls to selectively control, and monitor all traffic passed between zones and systems.
Monitor and log all network traffic attempting to reach the affected products for suspicious activity.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

USE OF HARD-CODED PASSWORDS CWE-259

The end user does not have the ability to change system passwords.
CVE-2016-9358 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

UNRESTRICTED UPLOAD OF FILE WITH DANGEROUS TYPE CWE-434

This vulnerability allows an attacker to modify the operation and upload firmware changes without detection.
CVE-2017-6041 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

IMPROPER ACCESS CONTROL CWE-284

The affected systems using the Pluto platform do not restrict remote access.
CVE-2017-9626 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Daniel Lance reported these vulnerabilities to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector: Food and Agriculture
Countries/Areas Deployed: United States, Europe, South America, and Asia
Company Headquarters Location: Iceland
