
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 2.5
ATTENTION: Exploitable locally
Vendor: Mitsubishi Electric Corporation
Equipment: GX Works2
Vulnerability: Denial-of-Service

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow a Denial-of-service (DoS) due to improper input validation in the simulation function of GX Works2 by sending specially crafted packets.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS

GX Works2: all versions

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Improper Input Validation CWE-20
An attacker may be able to cause denial-of-service (DoS) condition on the function by sending specially crafted packets. However, the attacker would need to send the packets from within the same personal computer where the function is running.
CVE-2023-5274 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 2.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L).
3.2.2 Improper Input Validation CWE-20
An attacker may be able to cause denial-of-service (DoS) condition on the function by sending specially crafted packets. However, the attacker would need to send the packets from within the same personal computer where the function is running.
CVE-2023-5275 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 2.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Japan

3.4 RESEARCHER
joker63 of ZheJiangQiAnTechnology reported these vulnerabilities to Mitsubishi Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Mitsubishi Electric recommends that users take the following mitigation measures to minimize the risk of exploiting this vulnerability:


Install an antivirus software in your personal computer using the affected product.


Use your personal computer with the affected product within the LAN and block remote login from untrusted networks, hosts, and users.


When connecting your personal computer with the affected product to the Internet, use a firewall, virtual private network (VPN), etc., to prevent unauthorized access, and allow only trusted users to remote login.


Don't open untrusted files or click untrusted links.
For more information, see the Mitsubishi security advisory.


CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time. These vulnerabilities are not exploitable remotely. These vulnerabilities have a high attack complexity.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 28, 2023: Initial Publication

