
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

​CVSS v3 7.5
​ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
​Vendor: Rockwell Automation
​Equipment: Armor PowerFlex
​Vulnerability: Incorrect Calculation

2. RISK EVALUATION
​Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to send an influx of network commands, causing the product to generate an influx of event log traffic at a high rate, resulting in the stop of normal operation.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
​The following Rockwell Automation products are affected: 


​Armor PowerFlex: v1.003


3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 ​INCORRECT CALCULATION CWE-682
​A vulnerability was discovered in Armor PowerFlex when the product sends communications to the local event log. Threat actors could exploit this vulnerability by sending an influx of network commands, causing the product to generate an influx of event log traffic at a high rate. If exploited, the product would stop normal operations and self-reset. The error code would need to be cleared prior to resuming normal operations.
​CVE-2023-2423 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

​CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
​COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
​COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
​Rockwell Automation reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
​Rockwell Automation recommends users apply the following mitigations:

​Update Armor PowerFlex to v2.001 or later
​Implement Rockwell Automation best security practices

​For more information, visit Rockwell Automation’s security bulletin.
​CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

​Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
​Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
​When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

​CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
​CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
​Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
​Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
​No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities have been reported to CISA at this time.
