
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global). View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 7.4
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Mendix Applications
Vulnerability: Improper Privilege Management

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation requires to guess the identification of a target role which contains the elevated access rights.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Siemens products, are affected:

Siemens Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: Versions prior to V9.24.22 and after V9.3.0
Siemens Mendix Applications using Mendix 10: Versions prior to V10.11.0
Siemens Mendix Applications using Mendix 10 (V10.6): Versions prior V10.6.9

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER PRIVILEGE MANAGEMENT CWE-269
Affected applications could allow users with the capability to manage a role to elevate the access rights of users with that role. Successful exploitation requires to guess the id of a target role which contains the elevated access rights.
CVE-2024-33500 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.9 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-33500. A base score of 7.4 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:P/PR:H/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:N/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Defense Industrial Base, Energy, Financial Services, Government Facilities, Healthcare and Public Health, Transportation Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Achmea Security Assessment Team reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends users update the product to following versions:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: Update to V9.24.22 or later version
Mendix Applications using Mendix 10: Update to V10.11.0 or later version

Mendix Applications using Mendix 10 (V10.6): Update to V10.6.9 or later version
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Set the runtime setting StrictReferenceChecks to false; note however, that this comes at the price of making the reference checks less secure

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-540640 in HTML and CSAF.CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

June 13, 2024: Initial Publication

