
CVSS v3 9.1
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Detcon
Equipment: SiteWatch Gateway
Vulnerabilities: Improper Authentication, Plaintext Storage of a Password
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Detcon SiteWatch Gateway, an Ethernet Notification System, are affected:

All SiteWatch Gateway versions are affected.
Detcon reports Cellular versions not impacted.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities may allow remote code execution. An attacker who exploits these vulnerabilities may be able to change settings on the affected product or obtain user passwords.
MITIGATION
Detcon no longer sells or maintains the SiteWatch Gateway product. They have attempted to send a notification to all SiteWatch users.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER AUTHENTICATION CWE-287

An attacker can edit settings on the device using a specially crafted URL.
CVE-2017-6049 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.1 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N).

PLAINTEXT STORAGE OF A PASSWORD CWE-256

Passwords are presented in plaintext in a file that is accessible without authentication.
CVE-2017-6047 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.6 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:L/A:L).
RESEARCHER
Independent researcher Maxim Rupp reported the vulnerabilities.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Water and Wastewater Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: United States, Europe, Asia
Company Headquarters Location: The Woodlands, Texas
