
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Mitsubishi Electric
Equipment: FA Engineering Software Products
Vulnerability: External Control of File Name or Path

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a malicious attacker to execute malicious code by tricking legitimate users to open a specially crafted project file, which could result in information disclosure, tampering and deletion, or a denial-of-service condition.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Mitsubishi Electric reports the following versions of FA Engineering Software Products are affected:

GX Works3: All versions
MELSOFT iQ AppPortal: All versions
MELSOFT Navigator: All versions
Motion Control Setting (Software packaged with GX Works3): All versions

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 External Control of File Name or Path CWE-73
Malicious code execution vulnerability due to external control of file name or path exists in multiple FA engineering software products. This vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute a malicious code by having legitimate users open a specially crafted project file, which could result in information disclosure, tampering and deletion, or a denial-of-service condition.
CVE-2023-5247 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Japan

3.4 RESEARCHER
01dGu0 of ZHEJIANG QIAN INFORMATION & TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD reported this vulnerability to Mitsubishi Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Mitsubishi Electric recommends that users take the following mitigation measures to minimize the risk of exploiting this vulnerability:

Install antivirus software in computers using the affected product.
Use computers with the affected product within the LAN and block remote login from untrusted networks, hosts, and users.
When connecting computers with the affected product to the Internet, use a firewall, virtual private network (VPN), etc., to prevent unauthorized access, and allow only trusted users to remote login.
Don't open untrusted files or click untrusted links.

For additional information see Mitsubishi Electric advisory 2023-016.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 30, 2023: Initial Publication

