
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 8.2
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: OZW672 and OZW772 Web Server
Vulnerability: Cross-site Scripting

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an authenticated remote attacker to inject arbitrary JavaScript code that is later executed by another authenticated victim user with potential higher privileges than the attacker.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Siemens products are affected:

OZW672: versions prior to V5.2
OZW772: versions prior to V5.2

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF INPUT DURING WEB PAGE GENERATION ('CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING') CWE-79
The user accounts tab of affected devices is vulnerable to stored cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks. This could allow an authenticated remote attacker to inject arbitrary JavaScript code that is later executed by another authenticated victim user with potential higher privileges than the attacker.
CVE-2024-36140 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated forCVE-2024-36140. A base score of 8.2 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:L/UI:P/VC:N/VI:H/VA:N/SC:N/SI:H/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Paulo Mota reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

All affected products: Update to V5.2 or later version

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-230445 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 14, 2024: Initial Publication

