
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 7.0
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell Automation
Equipment: Arena Input Analyzer
Vulnerability: Improper Validation of Specified Quantity in Input

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to disclose information and execute arbitrary code on the program.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Rockwell Automation Input Analyzer (Arena), an event simulation and automation software, are affected:

Arena Input Analyzer: v16.20.03 and prior

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER VALIDATION OF SPECIFIED QUANTITY IN INPUT CWE-1284
Rockwell Automation Input Analyzer version v16.20.00 (as included in Arena v16.20.03) is vulnerable to memory corruption when parsing DFT files. Local threat actors can exploit this issue to disclose information and to execute arbitrary code. To exploit this vulnerability a legitimate user must open a malicious DFT file.
 CVE-2024-6068 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-6068. A base score of 7.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:L/AC:L/AT:N/PR:L/UI:P/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Michael Heinzl reported this vulnerability to Rockwell Automation.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation encourages users to update Arena Input Analyzer to version 16.20.04 or later.
For information on how to mitigate security risks on industrial automation control systems, Rockwell Automation encourages users to implement suggested security best practices to minimize the risk of the vulnerability.
Please see Rockwell Automation's security advisory for more information on this issue.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 14, 2024: Initial Publication

