
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 8.5
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Spectrum Power 7
Vulnerability: Incorrect Privilege Assignment

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an authenticated local attacker to escalate privileges.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Spectrum Power 7 are affected:

Spectrum Power 7: All versions prior to V24Q3

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 INCORRECT PRIVILEGE ASSIGNMENT CWE-266
The affected product contains several root-owned SUID binaries that could allow an authenticated local attacker to escalate privileges.
CVE-2024-29119 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3.1 base score of 7.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-29119. A base score of 8.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:4.0/AV:L/AC:L/AT:N/PR:L/UI:N/VC:H/VI:H/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Dimitri Lesy and Florens Schneider reported this vulnerability to Siemens.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations that users can apply to reduce the risk:

Spectrum Power 7: Update to V24Q3 or later version

Operators of critical power systems (e.g. TSOs or DSOs) worldwide are usually required by regulations to build resilience into the power grids by applying multi-level redundant secondary protection schemes. Siemens recommends that the operators check whether appropriate resilient protection measures are in place. The risk of cyber incidents impacting the grid's reliability can thus be minimized by virtue of the grid design. Siemens strongly recommends applying the provided security updates using the corresponding tooling and documented procedures made available with the product. If supported by the product, an automated means to apply the security updates across multiple product instances may be used. Siemens strongly recommends prior validation of any security update before being applied, and supervision by trained staff of the update process in the target environment. As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends to protect network access with appropriate mechanisms (e.g. firewalls, segmentation, VPN). It is advised to configure the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines in order to run the devices in a protected IT environment.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-616032 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 14, 2024: Initial Publication

