
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 4.5
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Teamcenter Active Workspace
Vulnerability: Path Traversal

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could lead to access control violations.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Teamcenter Active Workspace, a product lifecycle management (PLM) system, are affected:

Teamcenter Active Workspace v4.3: All versions prior to v4.3.10
Teamcenter Active Workspace v5.0: All versions prior to v5.0.8
Teamcenter Active Workspace v5.1: All versions prior to v5.1.5
Teamcenter Active Workspace v5.2: All versions prior to v5.2.1

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER LIMITATION OF A PATHNAME TO A RESTRICTED DIRECTORY (‘PATH TRAVERSAL’) CWE-22
A path traversal vulnerability in the application could allow an attacker to bypass certain restrictions, such as direct access, to access other services within the host.
CVE-2021-40357 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce the risk:

Teamcenter Active Workspace v4.3: Update to v4.3.10 or later version (login required)
Teamcenter Active Workspace v5.0: Update to v5.0.8 or later version (login required)
Teamcenter Active Workspace v5.1: Update to v5.1.5 or later version (login required)
Teamcenter Active Workspace v5.2: Update to v5.2.1 or later version (login required)
Harden the application host to prevent local access by untrusted personnel.

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends to configure the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security, and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information about this issue, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-413407
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
