
CVSS v3 7.0
ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit
Vendor: BLF-Tech LLC
Equipment: VisualView HMI
Vulnerability: Uncontrolled Search Path Element
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following VisualView HMI versions are affected:

VisualView HMI Version 9.9.14.0 and prior.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code within the system.
MITIGATION
BLF-Tech LLC has released a new version of VisualView HMI to address the reported vulnerability. VisualView HMI Version 10.2.15.0 can be downloaded at:
http://www.hmisys.com/downloads/VisualViewTrialInstaller.exe
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

UNCONTROLLED SEARCH PATH ELEMENT CWE-427

The uncontrolled search path element vulnerability has been identified, which may allow an attacker to run a malicious DLL file within the search path resulting in execution of arbitrary code.
CVE-2017-6051 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.0 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Karn Ganeshen discovered this vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Water and Wastewater Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: United States
Company Headquarters Location: Las Vegas, Nevada
