
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 3.3
ATTENTION: Low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Simcenter Femap
Vulnerability: Out-of-bounds Read

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to leak information in the context of the current process.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Simcenter Femap, a simulation application, are affected:

Simcenter Femap v2020.2: All versions
Simcenter Femap v2021.1: All versions

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    OUT-OF-BOUNDS READ CWE-125
The affected application lacks proper validation of user-supplied data when parsing modfem files. This could result in an out-of-bounds read past the end of an allocated buffer.
CVE-2021-37176 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 3.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
xina1i, working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has recommended the following:

Update to v2021.2 or later version.
Do not open untrusted modfem files from unknown sources.

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends users configure the environment according to Siemens operational guidelines for industrial security and follow the recommendations in the product manual.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For more information see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-997732
CISA recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
