
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 6.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: HMS Industrial Networks
Equipment: Anybus-CompactCom 30
Vulnerability: Cross-site Scripting

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to cause a denial-of-service condition, exfiltrate data, or obtain a high degree of control over the device and subsequent systems, including remote code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Anybus-CompactCom 30, an industrial communication interface, are affected if they include a web server:

Anybus-CompactCom 30: All versions

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF INPUT DURING WEB PAGE GENERATION ('CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING') CWE-79
The Anybus-CompactCom 30 products are vulnerable to a XSS attack caused by the lack of input sanitation checks. As a consequence, it is possible to insert HTML code into input fields and store the HTML code. The stored HTML code will be embedded in the page and executed by host browser the next time the page is loaded, enabling social engineering attacks.
CVE-2024-6558 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-6558. A base score of 6.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/AT:N/PR:N/UI:A/VC:L/VI:L/VA:L/SC:H/SI:H/SA:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Sweden

3.4 RESEARCHER
Vincenzo Giuseppe Colacino of Secoore reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
HMS recommends users implement at least one of the following:

Add password protection to all webpages served by the Anybus-CompactCom 30 module.
Disable or add the option to allow the end-user to disable the webserver in the AnybusCompactCom 30.
Make sure these products are used locally within a secure network utilizing proper network infrastructure controls. This will help ensure that unused or unnecessary protocols from unauthorized sources are blocked.
Ensure that control systems and devices are situated behind firewalls, ensuring their isolation from the corporate network.
Replace the Anybus-CompactCom 30 module with a Anybus-CompactCom 40 module.

For more information see the associated HMS security advisory.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

July 11, 2024: Initial Publication

