
Overview
Independent researcher Luigi Auriemma has identified a denial of service (DoS) vulnerability in Certec EDV GmbH atvise application. Certec has produced an update that resolves this vulnerability. Mr. Auriemma validated that the update resolves the vulnerability.
Affected Products
Atvise versions older than Version 2.1 are affected.
Impact
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities may allow an attacker to cause a DoS.
Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization. ICS-CERT recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of this vulnerability based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation.
Background
Certec EDV GmbH is an Austrian-based company.
The affected product, atvise, is web-based human-machine interface supervisory control and data acquisition (HMI SCADA) systems. According to Certec, atvise is deployed in every field of industrial automation. Certec states that these products are used worldwide.
Vulnerability Characterization
Vulnerability Overview
An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by sending specially crafted packets to Port 4840/TCP.
CVE-2011-4873 has been assigned to this vulnerability.
Vulnerability Details
Exploitability
This vulnerability is remotely exploitable.
Existence of Exploit
Public exploits are known to target this vulnerability.
Difficulty
An attacker with a low skill level can create the DoS.
Mitigation
Certec has developed a new version of atvise that prevents this DoS. Customers can download the new version of Atvise.
Certc and ICS-CERT recommend that owners of vulnerable versions of the atvise product download and install the updated version as soon as possible.
ICS-CERT also encourages asset owners to take additional defensive measures to protect against this and other cybersecurity risks.

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices. Critical devices should not directly face the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

The Control Systems Security Program (CSSP) also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the CSSP web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.

