
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Mendix
Vulnerability: Incorrect Authorization

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow unauthorized users bypass write permissions to attributes of objects.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Mendix Applications are affected:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 7: All versions prior to v7.23.22
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8: All versions prior to v8.18.7
Mendix Applications using Mendix 9: All versions prior to v9.3.0

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    INCORRECT AUTHORIZATION CWE-863
Write access checks of attributes of an object could be bypassed, if user has write permission to the first attribute of this object.
CVE-2021-33718 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific mitigations and workarounds users can apply to reduce the risk:

Update Mendix Applications using Mendix 7 to v7.23.22 or later
Update Mendix Applications using Mendix 8 to v8.18.7 or later
Update Mendix Applications using Mendix 9 to v9.3 or later
Make the first attribute of the object non-writeable
Add a new read attribute and move this up to become the first in the entity attribute table

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends users configure the environment according to Siemens operational guidelines for industrial security, and follow the recommendations in the product manual.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity 
For more information about this issue, please see Siemens security advisory SSA-352521.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
