
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 6.5
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity/public exploits are available
Vendor: Franklin Electric Fueling Systems
Equipment: Colibri
Vulnerability: Path Traversal

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to obtain login credentials for other users.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of FFS Colibri, a discontinued fuel inventory monitoring system, are affected:

FFS Colibri: all versions.

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 Path Traversal CWE-35
The discontinued FFS Colibri product allows a remote user to access files on the system including files containing login credentials for other users.
CVE-2023-5885 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Momen Eldawakhly Samurai Digital Security Ltd. reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Franklin Electric Fueling Systems determined that the vulnerability only affects the Colibri product which has not been sold since 2020 and does not affect the current EVO product lines. They created a firmware update for Colibri to address the issue. Users can download the update at from the Franklin Electric website. Franklin Electric is working with distributors to make sure all known users are aware that the update is available for installation.
For further information, please contact Franklin Electric Fueling Systems.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.
Exercise principles of least privilege.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 28, 2023: Initial Publication

