
CVSS v3 6.2
ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: ABB
Equipment: FOX515T
Vulnerability: Improper Input Validation
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of FOX515T, a communication interface, are affected:

FOX515T release 1.0

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow for a local attacker to craft a malicious script that would enable retrieval of any file on the server.
MITIGATION
ABB reports that the product has been phased out and has reached obsolete status. No further maintenance is planned for the product.
Please see the ABB Cyber Security Advisory 1KHW028693 on the ABB Alerts and Notification page at the following location:
http://new.abb.com/about/technology/cyber-security/alerts-and-notifications
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
In addition, ICS-CERT recommends that users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not remotely exploitable.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20

An improper input validation vulnerability has been identified, allowing a local attacker to provide a malicious parameter to the script that is not validated by the application, This could enable the attacker to retrieve any file on the server.
CVE-2017-14025 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.2 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Ketan Bali reported the vulnerability to ABB.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Communications
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Switzerland
