
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).
View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v4 5.9
ATTENTION: Exploitable from adjacent network
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: SENTRON Powercenter 1000
Vulnerability: Incorrect Synchronization

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to cause a denial-of-service condition.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Siemens reports that the following products are affected:

SENTRON Powercenter 1000 (7KN1110-0MC00): All versions
SENTRON Powercenter 1100 (7KN1111-0MC00): All versions

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 INCORRECT SYNCHRONIZATION CWE-821
A denial of service condition can only be triggered during BLE pairing. This occurs only in a limited time window of three minutes after any device restart requiring physical access. A reset of the power supply is necessary for device recovery.
CVE-2024-6657 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS:3.1/AV:A/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H).
A CVSS v4 score has also been calculated for CVE-2024-6657. A base score of 5.9 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (CVSS4.0/AV:A/AC:L/AT:P/PR:N/UI:P/VC:N/VI:N/VA:H/SC:N/SI:N/SA:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

If BLE is needed: After any restart of the device or after turning on BLE via short button press, wait for more than three minutes to check the device's availability via Modbus TCP interface. If necessary, perform a restart by turning the power supply off and on again.
If BLE is not needed: After any restart, disable BLE by a short press on the button.
SENTRON Powercenter 1000 (7KN1110-0MC00): Currently no fix is planned
SENTRON Powercenter 1100 (7KN1111-0MC00): Currently no fix is available

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage.
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-620799 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

December 12, 2024: Initial Publication

