
CVSS v3 9.8
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of SoftCMS Live Viewer, a video surveillance software designed for industrial automation systems, are affected:

SoftCMS Live Viewer, Version 1.6 and prior versions.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an unauthenticated user to access SoftCMS Live Viewer without knowing the user’s password.
MITIGATION
Moxa has provided software update Version 1.7 for SoftCMS Live Viewer which fixes this vulnerability. Moxa recommends users update to the new version, which is available at the following location:
https://www.moxa.com/support/download.aspx?type=support&id=11362
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER NEUTRALIZATION OF SPECIAL ELEMENTS USED IN AN SQL COMMAND ('SQL INJECTION') CWE-89

An improper neutralization of special elements used in an SQL command ('SQL Injection') vulnerability has been identified. Attackers can exploit this vulnerability to access SoftCMS without knowing the user’s password.
CVE-2017-12729 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
RESEARCHER
Security researcher Ziqiang Gu from Huawei WeiRan Labs identified this vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Transportation Systems.
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Taiwan
