
 
As of January 10, 2023, CISA will no longer be updating ICS security advisories for Siemens product vulnerabilities beyond the initial advisory. For the most up-to-date information on vulnerabilities in this advisory, please see Siemens' ProductCERT Security Advisories (CERT Services | Services | Siemens Global).

View CSAF
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.5
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Mendix Studio Pro 7, 8, 9, 10.
Vulnerability: Out-of-bounds Write

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of a victim user's system.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following products of Siemens, are affected:

Mendix Studio Pro 7: Versions prior to V7.23.37
Mendix Studio Pro 8: Versions prior to V8.18.27
Mendix Studio Pro 9: Versions prior to V9.24.0
Mendix Studio Pro 10: Versions prior to V10.3.1

3.2 Vulnerability Overview
3.2.1 OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
The affected products are vulnerable to an out-of-bounds write vulnerability in the integrated libwebp library, that could be triggered while parsing specially crafted image files. This could allow an attacker to execute code in the context of a victim user's system. As a precondition, the user needs to add such image files, or Mendix Marketplace content that contains such image files, to their project. The exploitation happens in certain scenarios when the user opens the document that contains the image.
CVE-2023-4863 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce risk:

Mendix Studio Pro 7: Update to V7.23.37 or later version
Mendix Studio Pro 8: Update to V8.18.27 or later version
Mendix Studio Pro 9: Update to V9.24.0 or later version
Mendix Studio Pro 10: Update to V10.3.1 or later version

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for industrial security and following recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage.
For more information see the associated Siemens security advisory SSA-268517 in HTML and CSAF.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability, such as:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Recognize VPNs may have vulnerabilities, should be updated to the most recent version available, and are only as secure as the connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploitation specifically targeting this vulnerability has been reported to CISA at this time. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. This vulnerability has a high attack complexity.
5. UPDATE HISTORY

November 16, 2023: Initial Publication

