
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.1
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity 
Vendor: Siemens 
Equipment: Mendix Email Connector 
Vulnerability: Improper Access Control 

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an authenticated remote attacker to read and manipulate sensitive information. 
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Siemens Mendix Email Connector, a software management platform, are affected: 

Mendix Email Connector: Versions prior to 2.0.0

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 IMPROPER ACCESS CONTROL CWE-284 
Siemens Mendix Email Connector versions prior to 2.0.0 improperly handle access control for some module entities, which could allow an authenticated remote attacker to read and manipulate sensitive information. 
CVE-2022-45936 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.1 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:N). 
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple 
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide 
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany 

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens prepared an updated fix and recommends users update to Mendix Email Connector version 2.0.0 or later. 
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations that users can apply to reduce the risk: 

Do not use the default user role of the module. 

As a general security measure, Siemens recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. To operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends  configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security and following the recommendations in the product manuals.  
For more information, see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-224632 in HTML or CSAF. 
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. 
