
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 5.3
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Mendix
Vulnerability: Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor

2. UPDATE INFORMATION
This updated advisory is a follow-up to the original advisory titled ICSA-22-104-07 Siemens Mendix (Update A) that was published June 16, 2022, on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics.
3. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an unauthenticated remote attacker to read sensitive data.
4. TECHNICAL DETAILS
4.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Mendix, a software platform to build mobile and web applications, are affected:
-------- Begin Update B Part 1 of 2 ---------

Mendix applications using Mendix 7: All versions prior to 7.23.31
Mendix applications using Mendix 8: All versions prior to 8.18.18
Mendix applications using Mendix 9: All versions prior to 9.11
Mendix applications using Mendix 9 (v9.6): All versions prior to 9.6.12

--------- End Update B Part 1 of 2 ---------
4.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
4.2.1    EXPOSURE OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION TO AN UNAUTHORIZED ACTOR CWE-200
Applications built with an affected system publicly expose the internal project structure. This could allow an unauthenticated remote attacker to read confidential information.
CVE-2022-27241 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
4.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Multiple Sectors
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

4.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to CISA.
5. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has provided the following specific workarounds and mitigations:

Mendix Applications using Mendix 7: Update to Version 7.23.31 or later
Mendix Applications using Mendix 8: Update to Version 8.18.18 or later
Mendix Applications using Mendix9: Update to Version 9.11 or later

--------- Begin Update B Part 2 of 2 ---------

Mendix Applications using Mendix 9 (v9.6): Update to Version 9.6.12 or later

--------- End Update B Part 2 of 2 ---------
As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security, and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on industrial security by Siemens can be found on the Siemens industrial security webpage.
For more information on this vulnerability and more detailed mitigation instructions, please see Siemens Security Advisory SSA-414513
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
