
CVSS v3 6.3
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: CyberVision
Equipment: Kaa IoT Platform
Vulnerability: Code Injection
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following version of Kaa IoT Platform, a middleware platform, is affected:

Kaa IoT Platform, Version 0.7.4, and possibly other versions.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow for the creation of files with custom content, movement of files, and execution of arbitrary OS commands.
MITIGATION
CyberVision’s Kaa Project has been unresponsive to multiple contact requests and has produced no mitigations for this vulnerability.
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

INSUFFICIENT ENCAPSULATION CWE-485

A code injection vulnerability has been identified, which may allow remote code execution.
CVE-2017-7911 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
RESEARCHER
Jacob Baines from Tenable Network Security is credited with the discovery of this vulnerability.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, Food and Agriculture, Healthcare and Public Health, Information Technology
Countries Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Florida, United States
