
CVSS v3 6.5
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit.
Vendor: Moxa
Equipment: NPort W2150A and W2250A
Vulnerability: Credentials Management
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of NPort, a serial network interface, are affected:

NPort W2150A Versions prior to 1.11, and
NPort W2250A Versions prior to 1.11.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow unauthorized access.
MITIGATION
Moxa has produced new firmware Version 2.1 for the affected devices that can be downloaded from:
https://www.moxa.com/support/download.aspx?type=support&id=14781
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

CREDENTIALS MANAGEMENT CWE-255

The default password is empty on the device. An unauthorized user can access the device without a password. An unauthorized user has the ability to completely compromise the confidentiality and integrity of the wireless traffic.
CVE-2017-16727 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.5 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Federico Maggi reported the vulnerability to ICS-CERT.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing, Energy, and Transportation Systems
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: Taiwan
