
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.0
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Rockwell
Equipment: ArmorStart
Vulnerabilities: Improper Input Validation

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow a malicious user to view and modify sensitive data or make the web page unavailable.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Rockwell ArmorStart are affected:

ArmorStart ST281E: Version 2.004.06 and later
ArmorStart ST284E: All versions
ArmorStart ST280E: All versions

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20 
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user to view and modify sensitive data or make the web page unavailable. User interaction, such as a phishing attack, is required for successful exploitation of this vulnerability.
CVE-2023-29031 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H). 
3.2.2 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user to view and modify sensitive data or make the web page unavailable. User interaction, such as a phishing attack, is required for successful exploitation of this vulnerability.
CVE-2023-29030 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.3 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user to view and modify sensitive data or make the web page unavailable. User interaction, such as a phishing attack, is required for successful exploitation of this vulnerability.
CVE-2023-29023 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.4 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user to view and modify sensitive data or make the web page unavailable. User interaction, such as a phishing attack, is required for successful exploitation of this vulnerability.
CVE-2023-29024 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.5 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L). 
3.2.5 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user with admin privileges and network access to view user data and modify the web interface. Additionally, a malicious user could potentially cause interruptions to the availability of the web page.
CVE-2023-29025 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L). 
3.2.6 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user with admin privileges and network access to view user data and modify the web interface. Additionally, a malicious user could potentially cause interruptions to the availability of the web page.
CVE-2023-29026 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L). 
3.2.7 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user with admin privileges and network access to view user data and modify the web interface. Additionally, a malicious user could potentially cause interruptions to the availability of the web page.
CVE-2023-29027 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L). 
3.2.8 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user with admin privileges and network access to view user data and modify the web interface. Additionally, a malicious user could potentially cause interruptions to the availability of the web page.
CVE-2023-29028 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
3.2.9 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user with admin privileges and network access to view user data and modify the web interface. Additionally, a malicious user could potentially cause interruptions to the availability of the web page.
CVE-2023-29029 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L). 
3.2.10 IMPROPER INPUT VALIDATION CWE-20
A cross site scripting vulnerability was discovered that could potentially allow a malicious user with admin privileges and network access to view user data and modify the web interface. Additionally, a malicious user could potentially cause interruptions to the availability of the web page.
CVE-2023-29022 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.7 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
Rockwell Automation reported these vulnerabilities to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Rockwell Automation recommends users take the following measures to mitigate the risk of these vulnerabilities:

Disable the webserver during normal use. The webserver is disabled by default and should only be enabled to modify configurations. After modifying configurations, the web server should be disabled.
For information on how to mitigate security risks on industrial automation control systems (IACS) networks see the following publications:

 System Security Design Guidelines Reference Manual publication, SECURE-RM001
Configure System Security Features User Manual, SECURE-UM001


Additionally, Rockwell Automation encourages customers to implement their suggested Security Best Practices to minimize the risk of the vulnerabilities.

CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.
Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks:

Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages.
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams.
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
