
CVSS v3 10.0
ATTENTION: Remotely exploitable/low skill level to exploit. Public exploits are available.
Vendor: Sierra Wireless
Equipment: AirLink Raven XE and XT
Vulnerabilities: Improper Authorization, Cross-Site Request Forgery, Insufficiently Protected Credentials
REPOSTED INFORMATION
This advisory is a follow-up to the alert titled ICS-ALERT-16-182-01 Sierra Wireless AirLink Raven XE and XT Gateway Vulnerabilities that was published June 30, 2016, on the NCCIC/ICS-CERT web site.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following Sierra Wireless gateways are affected:

AirLink Raven XE, all versions prior to 4.0.14, and
AirLink Raven XT, all versions prior to 4.0.11.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities may allow a remote attacker to perform unauthorized sensitive functions compromising the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the affected system.
MITIGATION
Sierra Wireless has released new firmware versions to address the forced browsing and cross-site request forgery vulnerabilities. Sierra Wireless reports that the insufficiently protected credentials vulnerability will not be addressed.
Sierra Wireless’s Raven XE firmware Version 4.0.14, is available at the following location:
https://source.sierrawireless.com/resources/airlink/software_downloads/nucaleos/raven-xe-firmware-list/
Sierra Wireless’s Raven XT firmware Version 4.0.11, is available at the following location:
https://source.sierrawireless.com/resources/airlink/software_downloads/nucaleos/raven-xt-firmware-list/
Sierra Wireless has released a Technical Bulletin, which is available at the following location:
https://source.sierrawireless.com/resources/airlink/software_reference_docs/raven-ics-alert-16-182-01/
For additional information about these vulnerabilities or the recommendations provided, please contact Sierra Wireless’ security team at:
security@sierrawireless.com
NCCIC/ICS-CERT recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
ICS-CERT also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site.
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

IMPROPER AUTHORIZATION CWE-285

Several files and directories can be accessed without authentication, which may allow a remote attacker to perform sensitive functions including arbitrary file upload, file download, and device reboot.
CVE-2017-6044 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 10.0 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).

CROSS-SITE REQUEST FORGERY (CSRF) CWE-352

Affected devices do not verify if a request was intentionally sent by the logged-in user, which may allow an attacker to trick a client into making an unintentional request to the web server that will be treated as an authentic request.
CVE-2017-6042 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

INSUFFICIENTLY PROTECTED CREDENTIALS CWE-522

Sensitive information is insufficiently protected during transmission and vulnerable to sniffing, which could lead to information disclosure.
CVE-2017-6046 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 4.3 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N).
RESEARCHER
Independent researcher Karn Ganeshen identified and publicly released vulnerabilities in the Sierra Wireless AirLink Raven XE and XT Gateways prior to coordinating with ICS-CERT; however, the researcher did initially coordinate the identified vulnerabilities with the vendor.
BACKGROUND
Critical Infrastructure Sector(s): Critical Manufacturing, Energy
Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide
Company Headquarters Location: British Columbia, Canada
