
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 9.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Schneider Electric
Equipment: Proclima
Vulnerabilities: Code Injection, Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buffer, Uncontrolled Search Path Element

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to execute arbitrary code on the targeted system.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Schneider Electric reports these vulnerabilities affect the following ProClima building and automation control products:

ProClima, all versions prior to 8.0.0

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    IMPROPER CONTROL OF GENERATION OF CODE ('CODE INJECTION') CWE-94
A code injection vulnerability could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to execute arbitrary code on the targeted system.
CVE-2019-6823 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.2    IMPROPER RESTRICTION OF OPERATIONS WITHIN THE BOUNDS OF A MEMORY BUFFER CWE-119
A buffer error vulnerability could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to execute arbitrary code on the targeted system.
CVE-2019-6824 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 9.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.2.3    UNCONTROLLED SEARCH PATH ELEMENT CWE-427
An uncontrolled search path element vulnerability could allow a malicious DLL file with the same name of any resident DLLs inside the software installation to execute arbitrary code.
CVE-2019-6825 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing, and Energy
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: United States, Europe, and Asia
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: France

3.4 RESEARCHER
Haojun Hou reported a vulnerability to CISA. Kushal Arvind Shah of Fortinet,Yongjun Liu of NSFOCUS security team, and Telus reported vulnerabilities to Schneider Electric.
4. MITIGATIONS
Schneider Electric has released Version 8.0.0 of ProClima and recommends users upgrade to this version or newer. Users may find the new version at the following location on the Schneider Electric website:
https://www.schneider-electric.com/en/product-range-download/2560-proclima/#tabs-top 
For more information on these vulnerabilities and the associated upgrade, please see Schneider Electric’s SEVD-2019-162-01:
https://www.schneider-electric.com/en/download/document/SEVD-2019-162-01/
Schneider Electric recommends the following best cybersecurity practices for industry:

Locate control and safety system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from the business network.
Physical controls should be in place so no unauthorized person has access to the ICS and safety controllers, peripheral equipment, or the ICS and safety networks.
All controllers should reside in locked cabinets and never be left in “Program” mode.
All programming software should be kept in locked cabinets and should never be connected to any network other than the network for devices intended.
All methods of mobile data exchange with the isolated network, such as CDs, USB drives, etc., should be scanned before use in the terminals or any node connected to these networks.
Laptops that have connected to any other network besides the intended network should never be allowed to connect to the safety or control networks without proper sanitation.
Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems and ensure they are not accessible from the Internet.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

For further information related to cybersecurity in Schneider Electric’s products, please visit the company’s cybersecurity webpage:
http://www2.schneider-electric.com/sites/corporate/en/support/cybersecurity/cybersecurity.page
If you require additional support, Schneider Electric Industrial Cybersecurity Services team is available to help. Please visit:
https://www.schneider-electric.com/en/work/services/field-services/industrial-automation/industrial-cybersecurity/industrial-cybersecurity.jsp
CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks: 

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages. 
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams. 
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target these vulnerabilities.
