
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


CVSS v3 10.0

ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: TIM 1531 IRC
Vulnerability: Missing Authentication for Critical Function

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to perform arbitrary administrative operations.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of TIM 1531 IRC—a communication module for SIMATIC S7-1500, S7-400, and S7-300 with SINAUT ST7—are affected:

TIM 1531 IRC all versions prior to 2.0

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    MISSING AUTHENTICATION FOR CRITICAL FUNCTION CWE-306
When the product is configured it is missing proper authentication on Port 102/TCP, which could allow an attacker to perform arbitrary administrative operations.
CVE-2018-13816 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 10.0 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Chemical, Critical Manufacturing, Energy, Food and Agriculture, Water and Wastewater Systems
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Siemens reported this vulnerability to NCCIC.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens recommends upgrading to firmware v2.0, which can be downloaded from the following link:
https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/ww/en/view/109762596
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations users can apply to reduce the risk:

Restrict access to Port 102/TCP on TIM 1531 IRC to trusted IP addresses
Update firmware to version v2.0 (and reload the TIM station from engineering)

For additional information see Siemens’ security advisory SSA-982399 at the following location:
http://www.siemens.com/cert/en/cert-security-advisories.htm
As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends protecting network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends configuring the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for industrial security and following the recommendations in the product manuals.
https://www.siemens.com/cert/operational-guidelines-industrial-security
Additional information on Industrial Security by Siemens can be found at:
https://www.siemens.com/Industrialsecurity
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS-CERT website in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
