
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 7.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Siemens
Equipment: Tecnomatix RobotExpert
Vulnerability: Out-of-bounds Write

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow remote code execution.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Tecnomatix RobotExpert are affected:

All versions prior to v16.1

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    OUT-OF-BOUNDS WRITE CWE-787
Affected applications lack proper validation of user-supplied data when parsing CELL files. This could result in an out-of-bounds write past the end of an allocated structure. An attacker could leverage this vulnerability to execute code in the context of the current process. 
CVE-2021-25670 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 7.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Critical Manufacturing
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Germany

3.4 RESEARCHER
Francis Provencher {PRL}, working with Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative, reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
Siemens has identified the following specific workarounds and mitigations that users can apply to reduce the risk:

Update to V16.1 or later
Do not open untrusted CELL files from unknown sources

As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends users protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends users configure the environment according to Siemens’ operational guidelines for Industrial Security and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals.
Additional information on Industrial Security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity
For additional information, please refer to Siemens Security Advisory SSA-163226
For further inquiries on security vulnerabilities in Siemens products and solutions, please contact Siemens ProductCERT.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.cisa.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.

Do not click web links or open unsolicited attachments in email messages. 
Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams. 
Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks.

No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
