
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 8.8
ATTENTION: Exploitable remotely/low attack complexity
Vendor: Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD)
Equipment: Pyxis
Vulnerability: Not Using Password Aging

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to gain access to electronic protected health information (ePHI) or other sensitive information.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following BD Pyxis products, an automated medication dispensing system, are affected:

BD Pyxis ES Anesthesia Station
BD Pyxis CIISafe
BD Pyxis Logistics
BD Pyxis MedBank
BD Pyxis MedStation 4000
BD Pyxis MedStation ES
BD Pyxis MedStation ES Server
BD Pyxis ParAssist
BD Pyxis Rapid Rx
BD Pyxis StockStation
BD Pyxis SupplyCenter
BD Pyxis SupplyRoller
BD Pyxis SupplyStation
BD Pyxis SupplyStation EC
BD Pyxis SupplyStation RF auxiliary
BD Rowa Pouch Packaging Systems

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    NOT USING PASSWORD AGING CWE-262
Specific BD Pyxis products were installed with default credentials and may still operate with these credentials. There may be scenarios where BD Pyxis products are installed with the same default local operating system credentials or domain-joined server(s) credentials that may be shared across product types. Threat actors could exploit this vulnerability to gain privileged access to the underlying file system and exploit or gain access to ePHI or other sensitive information.
CVE-2022-22767 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 8.8 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Healthcare and Public Health
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: United States

3.4 RESEARCHER
BD voluntarily reported this vulnerability through the CISA coordinated vulnerability disclosure program.
4. MITIGATIONS
BD is currently strengthening credential management capabilities in BD Pyxis products. Service personnel are working with users whose domain-joined server(s) credentials require updates.
BD is piloting a credential management solution initially targeted for specific BD Pyxis product versions and will allow for improved authentication management practices with specific local operating system credentials. Changes needed for installation, upgrade, or to applications are being evaluated as remediations.
Additionally, BD recommends the following compensating controls for users of BD Pyxis products utilizing default credentials:

Limit physical access to only authorized personnel.
Tightly control management of system passwords provided to authorized users.
Monitor and log network traffic attempting to reach the affected products for suspicious activity.
Isolate affected products in a secure VLAN or behind firewalls with restricted access that only permits communication with trusted hosts in other networks, when needed.

For more information on this issue, please see the associated BD product security bulletin on the BD website.
CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
