
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CVSS v3 3.6
Vendor: Philips
Equipment: Ultrasound ClearVue, Ultrasound CX, Ultrasound EPIQ/Affiniti, Ultrasound Sparq, Ultrasound Xperius
Vulnerability: Authentication Bypass Using an Alternate Path or Channel

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow a non-authenticated attacker to view or modify information.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of Philips Ultrasound Systems, are affected:

Ultrasound ClearVue Versions 3.2 and prior
Ultrasound CX Versions 5.0.2 and prior
Ultrasound EPIQ/Affiniti Versions VM5.0 and prior
Ultrasound Sparq Version 3.0.2 and prior and
Ultrasound Xperius all versions

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    AUTHENTICATION BYPASS USING AN ALTERNATE PATH OR CHANNEL CWE-288
An attacker may use an alternate path or channel that does not require authentication of the alternate service login to view or modify information.
CVE-2020-14477 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 3.6 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:L/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Healthcare and Public Health
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Netherlands

3.4 RESEARCHER
Philips reported this vulnerability to CISA.
4. MITIGATIONS
 
Philips released Ultrasound EPIQ/Affiniti Version VM6.0 in April 2020 and recommends users with the Ultrasound EPIQ/Affiniti systems to contact their local Philips service support team, or regional service support for installation information.
Philips is currently planning the following new releases:

Ultrasound ClearVue Version 3.3 release in Q4 2020
Ultrasound CX Version 5.0.3 release in Q4 2020
Ultrasound Sparq Version 3.0.3 release in Q4 2020

As an interim mitigation to this vulnerability, Philips recommends customers ensure service providers can guarantee installed device integrity during all service and repair operations.
Users with questions regarding their specific Ultrasound installation should contact the Philips service support team or regional service support.
Users can contact Philips customer service, and find more details in the Philips advisory (external link). Please see the Philips product security website for the latest security information for Philips products.
CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Implement physical security measures to limit or control access to critical systems.
Restrict system access to authorized personnel only and follow a least privilege approach.
Apply defense-in-depth strategies.
Disable unnecessary accounts and services.
Where additional information is needed, refer to existing cybersecurity in medical device guidance issued by the FDA.

CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.

CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage on us-cert.gov in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.

Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is not exploitable remotely. High skill level is needed to exploit.
