
OVERVIEW
This advisory was originally posted to the NCCIC Portal on March 23, 2017, and is being released to the ICS-CERT web site.
Marc Ruef and Rocco Gagliardi of scip AG have identified an open redirect vulnerability in B. Braun Medical’s SpaceCom module, which is integrated into the SpaceStation docking station. B. Braun has produced a software update for the SpaceCom module to mitigate this vulnerability.
This vulnerability could be exploited remotely.
AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The following versions of the SpaceCom module, used with the SpaceStation docking station, are affected:

SpaceStation with SpaceCom module (integrated as part number 8713142U), software versions prior to Version 012U000040, and
SpaceStation (part number 8713140U) with installed SpaceCom module (part number 8713160U), software versions prior to Version 012U000040.

IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow URL redirection to untrusted web sites.
BACKGROUND
B. Braun Medical Inc. is a US-based company and is part of a global B. Braun group of companies.
The affected product, SpaceCom module, is a data communication interface that is used with a SpaceStation docking station for multiple intravenous infusion pumps. According to B. Braun Medical, SpaceCom modules are deployed across the Healthcare and Public Health Sector. B. Braun Medical estimates that this product is only used in the United States.
VULNERABILITY CHARACTERIZATION
VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW

URL REDIRECTION TO UNTRUSTED SITE ('OPEN REDIRECT')CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect'), http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/601.html, web site last accessed March 23, 2017.

The web server of the affected product accepts untrusted input which could allow attackers to redirect the request to an unintended URL contained within untrusted input.
CVE-2017-6018NVD, http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2017-6018, NIST uses this advisory to create the CVE web site report. This web site will be active sometime after publication of this advisory. has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 5.4 has been assigned; the CVSS vector string is (AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N).CVSS Calculator, https://www.first.org/cvss/calculator/3.0#CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:N, web site last accessed March 23, 2017.
VULNERABILITY DETAILS
EXPLOITABILITY
This vulnerability could be exploited remotely.
EXISTENCE OF EXPLOIT
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability.
DIFFICULTY
An attacker with a low skill level would be able to exploit this vulnerability.
MITIGATION
B. Braun Medical has released a software update, Version 012U000040, for the SpaceCom module, which is a data communication interface used with the SpaceStation docking station. B. Braun Medical’s software update, Version 012U000040, along with instructions for downloading and installing the software update, are available on the B. Braun Medical portal at the following location (with valid account):
https://ftp.bbmus.com
B. Braun Medical has directly notified affected customers using the SpaceCom module to inform them of the software update.
For B. Braun Medical portal account assistance, contact B. Braun Technical Support at:
1-800-627-7867
or
AISTechSupport.us@bbraun.com.
ICS-CERT in collaboration with B. Braun Medical recommends that users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all medical devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate all medical devices and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.
When remote access is required, use secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing that VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize that VPN is only as secure as the connected devices.

ICS-CERT also provides a section for security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page at http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/content/recommended-practices. ICS-CERT reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available in the ICS‑CERT Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies, that is available for download from the ICS-CERT web site (http://ics-cert.us-cert.gov/).
Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to ICS-CERT for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
