
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


CVSS v3 6.3

ATTENTION: Low skill level to exploit
Vendor: Philips
Equipment: iSite and IntelliSpace PACS
Vulnerability: Weak Password Requirements

2. RISK EVALUATION
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow an attacker with local network access to impact confidentiality, integrity, and availability of a component of the system.
3. TECHNICAL DETAILS
3.1 AFFECTED PRODUCTS
Philips reports the following versions of iSite and IntelliSpace PACS are affected:

iSite PACS, all versions, and
IntelliSpace PACS, all versions.

3.2 VULNERABILITY OVERVIEW
3.2.1    WEAK PASSWORD REQUIREMENTS CWE-521
Default credentials and no authentication within third party software may allow an attacker to compromise a component of the system.
CVE-2018-17906 has been assigned to this vulnerability. A CVSS v3 base score of 6.3 has been calculated; the CVSS vector string is (AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:L/A:L).
3.3 BACKGROUND

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS: Healthcare and Public Health
COUNTRIES/AREAS DEPLOYED: Worldwide
COMPANY HEADQUARTERS LOCATION: Netherlands

3.4 RESEARCHER
A user reported this vulnerability to Philips, who then reported it to NCCIC.
4. MITIGATIONS
Philips recommends that users ensure IntelliSpace PACS installations run in a managed service environment that adheres to NCCIC recommendations to minimize the risk of exploitation (Virtual Private Network, Firewall isolation from other networks, no Internet access). In addition, Philips employs an automated Antivirus solution that continuously monitors and remediates threats across all systems in the managed service environment. Philips has a monthly recurring patch program which all IntelliSpace PACS users are encouraged to participate. Users who participate in this program receive all Philips approved operating system and application patches in a timely fashion. The Philips iSite 3.6 platform is currently at its end of life (EoL) and end of service (EoS).
As an interim mitigation to the vulnerability, Philips recommends that users:

Ensure only authorized personnel can connect to the controlled network environment.
Review instructions for use guidelines available with the application interface and follow the security best practices.

Philips will continue to add cybersecurity vulnerability remediation improvements through their secure development lifecycle (SDL) as threats continue.
Users with questions regarding specific iSite/IntelliSpace PACS solutions are advised by Philips to contact their customer success manager (CSM), local Philips service support team, or regional service support. Philips contact information is available at the following location:
https://www.usa.philips.com/healthcare/solutions/customer-service-solutions
Please see the Philips product security website for the latest security information for Philips products:
https://www.philips.com/productsecurity
NCCIC recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of this vulnerability. Specifically, users should:

Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet.
Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network.

NCCIC reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures.NCCIC also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS-CERT web page. Several recommended practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies.
Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS-CERT website in the Technical Information Paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies.Organizations observing any suspected malicious activity should follow their established internal procedures and report their findings to NCCIC for tracking and correlation against other incidents.
No known public exploits specifically target this vulnerability. This vulnerability is exploitable from within the same local device subnet.
